g
• Red Cow Book 1 •

THE COMING STORM

gWs
Moon Design Publications
3450 Wooddale Ct
Ann Arbor, MI 48104

• CREDITS •
Written by
Ian Cooper, Jeff Richard, Greg Stafford
With Assistance by
Martin Helsdon
Acknowledgements
John E. Boyle, Simon Bray, Martin Hawley, Martin Laurie, Jamie ‘Trotsky’ Revell, Patrik Sandberg, Ingo Tschinke
Special Thanks to
Neil Robinson, Robin Laws
Illustrations by
Simon Bray, Ian Cooper, Colin Driver, Stefano Gaudiano, Rachel Kahn
Graphic Design & Layout by
Michal E. Cross
Additional Contributions
David Dunham, Mark Galeotti, Jeff Kyer, John Hughes, Martin Laurie, Wesley Quadros,
Jamie “Trotsky” Revell, Roderick Robinson, Patrik Sandberg, Ingo Tschinke, Juho Korolainen, and many others
Play Testing
Hervé Carteau, Chris Killey, Juho Korolainen, Eric Vanel, The Monday Nighters, La Garde de La Pierre Bazanne,
Folks at Continuum, Tentacles, Eternal Con, and Kraken over the years
Copyright © 2016 Moon Design Publications LLC. All rights reserved.
Reproduction of this work by any means without written permission from the publisher,
except short excerpts for the purpose of reviews or game play, is expressly prohibited. Glorantha, RuneQuest,
and HeroQuest are trademarks of Moon Design Publications LLC.
First Printing — March 2016
ISBN# 978-1-56882-103-0
Would you like to know more about Glorantha?
See our extensive website at www.glorantha.com
May Arachne Solara bless and protect this book.

• CONTENTS •
Chapter 1: PREPARING FOR PLAY .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4
Chapter 2: MAKING RED COW CHARACTERS . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Chapter 3: THE RED COW .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21
Chapter 4: THE WOLFSLAYERS .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53
Chapter 5: THE DOLUTHA .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 73
Chapter 6: DISTANT KIN .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Chapter 7: THE TWO-PINE .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 93
Chapter 8: THE EMERALD SWORD.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 99
Chapter 9: REBELS.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105
Chapter 10: THE WOODS OF THE DEAD .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 115
Chapter 11: WULFSLAND.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119
Chapter 12: THE TELMORI .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126
Chapter 13: APPENDICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
Index.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 142

• Chapter 1 •

PREPARING
FOR PLAY

T

he Coming Storm is a two-volume campaign that
follows the day-to-day struggles of an Orlanthi clan as the
Hero Wars begin in Dragon Pass. It takes your players from
the Lunar Occupation, through the Windstop and the Dragonrise.
This volume provides the setting for that campaign, and
covers the people whom your player characters will interact with
and the places that they will visit. It also explains how to make
characters for the campaign. It is suitable for both players and
Game Master as it contains facts that characters that have grown
up in this region would know.
The next volume contains a seven-year campaign that uses this
setting, covering the struggle for survival of the Red Cow clan
between 1618 and 1625. That volume is intended for Game Masters.

BEFORE STARTING
We recommend setting the parameters for your HeroQuest Glorantha
game before character creation; this helps everyone create a character concept that fits with the setting.
The parameters are the genre, the setting, the mode, the premise
and individual Narrative hooks.
You might need to change the parameters to fit your group’s
taste — Your Glorantha Will Vary.
We recommend that everyone play a Heortling hero, as they
are members of the Red Cow clan community. You may also
want to refer to Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes Book One: Making
Your Orlanthi Character and Clan.

GENRE
A HeroQuest Glorantha game follows the logic of the narrative
sources it emulates. The first genre The Coming Storm emulates is
that of the Icelandic Sagas such as Njal’s Saga and Laxdaela Saga
where heroism happens in the ordinary toil of daily life, feuds last
for generations, and life is short and uncertain.
In the sagas, honor and reputation are everything: any slight
to honor has to be avenged by blood or money; someone whose
honor is disparaged goads their kin into seeking restitution,
through violence if necessary. People have a store of luck, life eats
it away, and when that luck runs out, doom follows. Life is unfair
and difficult. What matters is how you confront such adversity.
The sagas revel in strong women, doughty warriors, and learned
chieftains. Action reveals the hero’s personality, not introspection.
You can find a Gloranthan example of saga fiction in Rastalulf ’s
Saga in History of the Heortling Peoples. If you and your players are

4

not familiar with the sagas, some historical fiction authors draw
heavily on them such as Tim Severin’s Viking series or Bernard
Cornwell’s Saxon Stories. If you prefer TV, look no further than
the fictionalized Ragnar Lothbrok of Vikings.
The second genre The Coming Storm emulates is Sword and
Sorcery. This is a tale of swashbuckling PCs risking all in the face
of danger. There are proud barbarians and a decadent and decaying empire. There are primitive savages and sinister remnants of
fallen civilizations. There are dark ruins and fabulous treasures
to be won by the bold. Magic is common, but often individual.
However, the stakes in the stories are personal triumph or loss not
the world-spanning threats of epic fantasy. If the PCs fail, their
families, kin, and loved ones may suffer, but the failure will not
change the world.
This differs from epic fantasy where the events are world
spanning in impact. Such games are possible in Glorantha, indeed
the Hero Wars themselves are epic, but that genre is not the focus
of this supplement.

SETTING
This game is set among the Red Cow clan between 1618 and 1625.
The Red Cow clan is a part of the Cinsina tribe; the Cinsina
tribe is in turn part of the Jonstown Confederation, an alliance
of tribes centered on the city of that name, and the Cinsina are
one of the tribes of the kingdom of Sartar, as described in Sartar:
Kingdom of Heroes. The Lunar Empire rules Sartar, though a
puppet Prince, Temertain. The Seven Mothers missionaries
preach the stories of the Red Moon Goddess and have banned
the worship of Orlanth, the Storm King.
The chief enemy of the Confederation is the Telmori, a tribe
of savage werewolves.

MODE
The most appropriate mode for this game is as a chronicle: the
characters manage the economic and political affairs of a community, often over a large span of time. Players may play multiple
characters, perhaps over several generations.
The mode suggests elements to build into your character.
Chronicle play reflects the saga genre and follows the PCs as
members of the clan as they try to survive the Hero Wars. The
focus remains on hearth and home. When the great events of
the Hero Wars impact the Red Cow clan, the focus is on how
the clan deals with the fallout of those events, not on the Hero
Wars themselves.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 1

PREMISE
The premise tells you what the PCs have in common
and either explains or implies a collective goal. The
short version of the premise as given in HeroQuest
Glorantha is: “The heroes are members of a clan
in Dragon Pass struggling against the oppressive
magical might of the Lunar Empire.” A longer, more
specific version for this game would be: “The Third
Age is ending and the Hero Wars have begun; the
characters are members of the Red Cow clan of the
Cinsina tribe in Sartar and they must guide their
clan to survive the Hero Wars that mark the ending
of the Third Age.”
The best stories are more than just ‘stuff happens.’
However many role-playing games end up as just
that — a series of unconnected if interesting events.
In the best stories, a theme or premise unifies the
events. We ask a question and answer it through the
actions of the characters.
Another way to set the premise in The Coming
Storm then is as a question: the Third Age is ending;
how will your clan survive the Hero Wars? The
Coming Storm, in the title of this book, is the Hero
Wars themselves.
We recommend that you share both these premise
with the players. If the players know the premise,
the characters they create will have something to
say about the questions raised.
We expand on this premise a little more below.
Feel free to read it to the players.

THE THIRD AGE IS ENDING;
HOW WILL YOUR CLAN
SURVIVE THE HERO WARS?
This is the Third Age of Glorantha since Time began.
The end of an age has always brought conflict and
death. The First Age ended with Lokamayadon’s
attempt to kill Orlanth and the war between Arkat
and Gbaji; the Second Age ended with outraged
natural forces drowning the God Learners, and the
collapse of the Empire of the Wyrms Friends. The
effects were far reaching. After the end of the Second
Age, the oceans were Closed to shipping and Dragon
Pass was forbidden to human settlement.
The Hero Wars mark the end of Glorantha, the
end of the world, as we know it. Monstrous dangers
have risen, great causes have been born, and the
gods are waking. Cataclysms like this have occurred
before. Everyone knows it. The only real question
is, “What will you do about it?”
Many prophecies say the Hero Wars will begin in
Dragon Pass, with the conflict between the Orlanthi
and the Lunar Empire. Who can doubt that when
the conflicts that have ended other ages began here?

In Sartar, a generation has grown up only knowing Lunar rule. Some have only known poverty,
hunger, and death resisting the Red Moon; others
have known prosperity, new opportunities, and joy
by welcoming the Empire. Some have fought in a
long rebellion; others have collaborated with the
Empire. Which side will you choose?
The priests of Orlanth tell that the Red Moon is
evil. The Goddess has embraced Chaos. The tyrannical Lunar Empire has stolen traditional freedoms.
Will you form part of that rebellion?
The Lunar missionaries bring a message of
co-operation and unity “We are all us.” The Seven
Mothers missionaries help mothers with childbirth,
heal the sick and injured, and help to feed the poor.
The Empire’s soldiers drive bandits from the road.
Will you co-operate with the Lunar Empire for a
peaceful, prosperous life?
The Empire has ruled Sartar for sixteen long years.
Rebel chieftains, such as Orstalor Spearlord and Venharl
Stormbrow, violently resist the Empire, ambushing
Lunar caravans, killing Lunar officials, and holding
worship of Orlanth at sacred hilltops. The clans that
aid them risk Lunar reprisals. Kallyr Starbrow, the
rebel leader, fights against the Empire; she has failed
once before and many suffered for joining her. Will
you join Kallyr’s rebels fighting against the Empire?
Queen Ivartha of the Cinsina does not trust
Kallyr Starbrow, accusing her of collaboration with
the Telmori wolfmen. A Lunar, Jomes Hostralos,
has kept the Telmori at bay since the Wolf Hunt.
He is a ‘wall of spears’ against the Telmori and his
settlers carve land from the forests that grew up after
the destruction of the Maboder. He is an ally of the
Cinsina. Yet, the surviving Maboder tribesfolk live
in servitude on Jomes’ lands and their kin cry out
for their freedom. Will you follow Queen Ivartha,
who does not trust Kallyr Starbrow? Will you join
Queen Ivartha in allying with the Lunar general
Jomes to fight your greatest enemy the Telmori? Will
you see your old enemies the Maboder returned to
their ancestral lands?

NARRATIVE HOOKS
We recommend that the players come up with a
Narrative Hook — an idea that will put pressure on
the character to become involved in game events.
The mode for The Coming Storm is chronicle, so
the hook should describe the contribution the character makes to the community. The motivation is
implicit; the character has to manage this resource,
increasing its productivity and protecting it from
outside threats. In addition, we recommend that
the character’s narrative hook implies how they will
respond to the premise — and help the clan survive
the Hero Wars.

Preparing for Play

THIS IS NOT A
STAND-ALONE
GAME!
The Coming Storm is
not a stand-alone game.
It is a supplement for
Moon Design’s Sartar:
Kingdom of Heroes, a
game set in the high fantasy world of Glorantha.
This supplement does not
describe the game’s various core traits, present its
rules for combat or provide a complete setting.
These can be found in the
HeroQuest Glorantha,
Sartar: Kingdom of
Heroes and the Sartar
Companion.
The Coming Storm
gives in-depth information about the Red Cow
clan, part of the Cinsina
tribe of the Kingdom
of Sartar and their
struggle against the Lunar
Empire. You’ll need to
consult HeroQuest
Glorantha and Sartar:
Kingdom of Heroes in
order to play. Much essential information about
Orlanthi lifestyle and
history is given in Sartar:
Kingdom of Heroes.
The Sartar Companion
is particularly useful, as
it includes a description
of Jonstown, a city in
Cinsina lands, and two
scenarios: The Crimson
Bat Comes to Sartar and
The Gifts of Stone which
can form part of this
campaign.
You may also find other
products such as Pavis:
Gateway to Adventure,
The Book of Heortling
Mythology and The
Guide to Glorantha
useful although they are
not needed to play The
Coming Storm.

5

Try to imply heroic action to save the clan, instead of everyday
commitments.
• Barntarling tends to the herds and guards the animals.
When the Hero Wars come, he will work to bring back the
promised Aurochs to Dragon Pass, and hunt them with the
prophesized liberator.
• Fintar is one of the chieftain’s housecarls. When the Hero
Wars come, he will takes to the vanguard in the fight to
defend the people of the clan from their enemies.
• Hedbrast is a thane of the Red Cow clan; he manages a large
farm that feeds many. When the Hero Wars come, he will
help the tribe by using powers and secrets he has stolen from
foreigners.
A good narrative hook tells the Game Master what kind of
adventures the player is interested in having.

USING THE MATERIAL
WITH EXISTING
CHARACTERS
Some Game Masters may want to incorporate this material into
an existing game. In this case, you probably have characters that
are not members of the Red Cow clan, but want to know how best
to involve them with the personalities and events here.
If the players are rebels then the easiest option may be to have
them join one of the two main rebel leaders in this book who
are operating in Cinsina lands — Orstalor Spearlord or Venharl
Stormbrow. In this case, the premise would become “The characters
are Sartarite rebels working against the Lunar Empire. An outlaw
band, they live in hiding in the wilderness.”
If the characters are not committed rebels, or do not like the
idea of being ‘on the run’ then we recommend incorporating them
into Queen Ivartha’s household. In that case, the premise would
be: “The characters are members of Queen Ivartha’s household.
The Queen and her household are the source of justice and protection for the tribe.”

THE COMING STORM AND OTHER
PUBLISHED SARTARITE CAMPAIGNS
The Colymar Campaign begun in the Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes
book and continued in the Sartar Companion follows the epic

6

of the Argrath and offers the PCs the chance to be the movers
and shakers of the Hero Wars. The Coming Storm by contrast
deals with the fate of ordinary people in a world on the brink
of a terrible conflict. The two thus provide alternate modes of
play for a HeroQuest Glorantha game. The Coming Storm covers
a period that includes some of the great events of the Hero Wars
such as the siege of Whitewall. However, for this campaign they
occur ‘off stage.’ Other Moon Designs products will cover these
events, and you can certainly dovetail them into The Coming
Storm if you wish.
You can use background and ideas from one campaign in the
other. Characters from the Colymar Campaign may find themselves visiting the Red Cow or other Cinsina clans. If they are
exiled, they may be able to serve their exile with Queen Ivartha.
Characters from The Coming Storm may well travel to the Earth
temples at Greenstone or Clearwine.
Many of the places encountered in the Sartar Companion appear
in The Coming Storm. The PCs will certainly want to travel to
Jonstown during the campaign, located as it is in the heart of the
Cinsina lands. Many of the scenarios within that book could be
easily located in Cinsina lands. For example, The Gifts of Stone
takes place within the area covered by this work.
The Lunar Road to Pavis passes through the campaign area and
that city can be an ideal detour or place of refuge for exiled PCs.

NPCS
NPCs are at the heart of a community centered game, and The
Coming Storm has a lot of them. The Coming Storm uses the
following format to describe NPCs.

NPC FORMAT
• Bloodline: The bloodline of the character and the birth clan
of women married into the clan.
• Faction: The political faction that character is sympathetic to.
• Age: How old the character is.
• Keywords: The character’s occupational keyword, giving you
some idea of what they know.
• Magic: The character’s cult and the Rune that they initiated
or devoted with. You should use this for color when narrating the use of magic.
• Look: These are those little facets of appearance distinguishing a character: a gruff voice, a nervous twitch, and
a vicious scar. They are a shorthand description — just
enough to be memorable.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 1

• Chapter 2 •

MAKING RED COW
CHARACTERS

F

eel free to make this section available to your players.
This is information they know. They can use their Heortling
Cultural Keyword to exhibit the values and use the secrets listed
here. The clan profile is more specific than the Heortling keyword
in HeroQuest Glorantha: all Heortlings can fight, but members of
the Red Cow favor the spear and axe. Player characters should use
their Community Red Cow Clan keyword to interact with the
friends and enemies listed here or draw on the clan’s Resources.

HOME OF THE BRAVE
The Red Cow clan is the home of the PCs, their patrons, allies,
and rivals. The players should ally themselves with or oppose the
actions of the factions here. The future of the clan is the reason why
the PCs risk their lives.
Conflict within the clan is usually political not violent, emotional not physical. Orlanth forbids violence between relatives,
or kinstrife, as there can be no compensation. It brings Chaos
into the world. The clan always seeks another way when violence
threatens from within.
Romantic adventures also cross clan boundaries, because people
do not marry their relatives. The Red Cow villages along the Heort
and Danda rivers share locations with Blueberry, Dolutha, and
Wulfsland neighbors. People often cross from one side to another
especially during peak periods of the farm year, such as harvest
or haymaking. The Danda Creek is seasonal, little more than a
trickle, or even dry for much of Fire, Earth and Dark Seasons,
only returning with the rains of Storm and Sea Season; at that
time the passage of people between settlements on the western
side of the Red Cow lands is unhindered by water.

THE RED COW
CLAN PROFILE
Running the clan questionnaire from the Sartar: Kingdom of
Heroes book helps the players to understand the myths and
history of their clan. Using a published clan, like the Red Cow,
could stand in the way of this. For this reason we suggest that
you run through the clan questionnaire for the Red Cow with
the players before you do character generation. Instead of the
players deciding on the answers, read the answers given here.
You might be playing with a group familiar with Glorantha
for whom the clan background needs no explanation; in that case
just hand them the clan record sheet.

You may prefer to create your own clan using the clan generator,
and use that with the material here. We would suggest that the
easiest way to do that with this book is to pick one of the Cinsina
clans described in Distant Kin (see page 88) and develop them
more fully. Most of the material here will still be directly usable.
Wives come from ‘somewhere else’ so any PCs that have married into the clan may want to generate their clan profile with
the clan generator. Again, these may well be the clans described
in Distant Kin.

YOUR CLAN
You are a member of the Red Cow clan, named for the sacred
red cows that you raise. Their breeding is a magical secret held
by your clan.
Your clan has enemies whom you hate, allies whom you trust,
and bonds of friendship with some Elder Races. Most likely, you
hold these same prejudices. If you do not, your kin may distrust you!
Your clan is better than others are, and your people have skills
of survival and making you have inherited.
Your clan has secrets that make you better than other people. As
a member of the clan, your hero knows these secrets; they are part
of him. Your hero would never tell anyone these secrets, although
he might say, “That is just the way my clan is.” He probably never
even thinks about it, but rather knows that it is just a part of him,
like seeing and running.

YOUR ANCESTORS
You live in the kingdom of Sartar in Dragon Pass. Five hundred
years ago, the dragons razed this land, killing everyone who lived
here. You are afraid of dragons.
When they left Heortland and Esrolia’s North March, your
ancestors settled in Duck Vale at the invitation of the King Varsmar
of the Colymar. It was an ill-fated choice; for nine years, your
ancestors had to fight for their survival, when the undead army
marched forth from the Upland Marsh. Later, when King Varsmar
made peace with the ducks, for protection from the undead army,
your ancestors had to leave their homes in Duck Vale.
Your ancestors migrated northeast and found empty lands along
the Creek. They made peace with the Ferfal Alliance, who had won
the land from the Grazeland Pony Breeders at the Battle of the Sun
Horses. This was good land and people grew prosperous and fat. That
wealth attracted envy, and the Culbrea and Malani tried to drive your
ancestors out, pushing them from the Lorthing and Boranini River
valleys and the Arfritha Vale. Your ancestors joined the Sanchali tribe,
and fought off the Culbrea and Malani at the Battle of Fordstone.

Making Red Cow Characters

7

8

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 2

Making Red Cow Characters

9

You have never trusted the warlike Malani or Culbrea, who
remain envious and determined to steal your cattle and land.
In the years of peace that followed, no one paid much attention
to the Sanchali king. Then the Telmori came.
The Telmori are werewolves; monsters from nightmare. They
look like people, but every Full Moon they turn into wolves. They
become ravening beasts roaming the land killing and eating people
and animals. Only enchanted weapons can pierce their hides.
Only heroes are brave enough to stand against them. They call
the Cinsina the ‘Brave Tribe’ because they have enough courage.
You have that courage.
The Telmori wiped out the Sanchali, killing their king and
stealing the tribal regalia. Your old tribe was no more.
At the same time, the king of Tarsh crushed the Ferfal Alliance,
forcing refugees south of the Creek, and gave the land to Dinacol
Hard-Rule. For the king of Tarsh, Dinacol kept the Telmori threat
away, but enemies now surrounded the people of the lands south
of the Creek.
It was Cinsin the Wolfskinner who organized the survivors
in their forts and strongholds, and who kept the routes open
between them. Your ancestors followed him willingly when he
formed a tribe to pool your resources against the Telmori threat.
Today you continue to support the Cinsina tribe because of the
threat of the Telmori.
‘Hauberk’ Jon united the tribes when Orstajor Black-Paws of
the Telmori tried to obliterate all the people south of the Creek. You
continue to support the Jonstown Confederation in his memory,
because only the united tribes can defeat the Telmori. When the
werewolves ate the Maboder tribe less than a generation ago, only the
Jonstown Confederation could stop them — under the leadership
of Jomes. What weakens the confederation strengthens the Telmori.

AXE ORLANTHI
Your clan is counted amongst the Axe Orlanthi. The Axe Orlanthi
tribes come from Heortland and the North March in Esrolia. Many
trace their ancestry to the warrior bands that ruled the Adjusted
Lands in the Second and early Third Ages. They worship Orlanth
and Ernalda, herd, farm, and hunt, and fight amongst themselves.
Some are patrilineal, belonging to their father’s lineage; others are
matrilineal, belonging to their mother’s lineage.
The Axe Orlanthi do not object to owning slaves — but the
Red Cow do not, as their wyter, Many-Breath was amongst those
who welcomed the “Cloud Folk” or Karantuel to join his clan as
free men during the Vingkotling Age. The Red Cow have many
‘adopted’ values from their pact with Many-Breath, which make
them different to their kin who remained in Esrolia.
• Primary Weapon: Spear
• Secondary Weapon: Axe
• Tertiary Weapon: Javelin
• Language: Southern Theyalan

YOUR VALUES
You are independent and your honor is important. You respond
with violence if provoked.

10

The clan gives you a place in society, rights within that society,
and sides with you against outsiders. You must keep your word,
aid in feeding and defending your kin, support the decisions of
the moot, and make guests welcome at your hearth. Working
together, you are safe from the seven dangers: strangers, foreigners,
enemies, hostile gods, disease, hunger, and Chaos.
You worship the Storm Tribe. Orlanth is King of the Gods,
and his wife Ernalda is the source of life. You know their myths
and stories, and you have experienced many of them in the Holy
Day ceremonies at your temple.
• Cautious: “Fools rush in. We prefer to tread carefully
weighing our options before committing ourselves to
action.”
• Courage: “Who dares wins! Those who take bold action
gain the greatest prizes. Cowards and losers get the dregs.”
• Shrewd: “Keep your wits about you. The sharp mind is the
greatest weapon. The sharp tongue is mightier than the axe.”
These values can come into conflict. Which values will you
choose to follow?

YOUR RESOURCES
Your clan is wealthy by the standards of Sartar, having prospered
because you know the secret of birthing your famous red cows. The
cows are important as sacrifices in many rituals. Clans across Sartar
trade with you to obtain your cows, which never breed true outside
your lands, so your customers must come back year after year.
Such wealth makes you the target of envy and jealousy. Your clan
has had to train warriors to protect its wealth from those around
you who would take it. Sometimes people just try to take the red
cows instead of trading for them. The Dinacoli and Culbrea tribes
have tried to overwhelm you many times.

AGRICULTURAL SPECIALTY
Your wealth comes from raising cattle in conjunction with grain
farming; you practice mixed farming. Your clan raises sheep as
well, however, cattle are much more important and the source of
your clan’s wealth.

YOUR CLAN LANDS
You farm the lands between the Heort Creek and the Danda Creek,
where you raise the fine red cattle that give your clan its name.
On the borders of Stagland and Jarolvale, enemies have always
surrounded you: the Dinacoli across the Creek to the north, the
Culbrea around Two-Pine Ridge and beyond in Lorthing Vale to
the south, and the Telmori to the east.
Your clan owns the lands from Red Cow Fort to the Finger along
the Heort Creek, and as far west as the Danda Creek. The land
slopes down from the Quivin Mountains toward the Creek and the
Donalf Flats beyond with hills separating the valleys through which
the tributaries of the Creek run. You live in villages along the rivers
where the floodwaters yield fine meadows of hay to feed fat cattle.
You use the hills between the rivers for summer grazing for the cattle.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 2

YOUR NEIGHBORS
Your neighbors to the northwest of the Danda Creek are old rivals:
the Dolutha clan. To their south are friends, the Blueberry clan,
once of the Culbrea, and now of the Cinsina.
To the south, lies Stagland, a lightly forested wild land the
Cinsina and Culbrea tribes dispute with the Telmori. The clan’s
hunters often clash with the wolfmen here, and travel is dangerous.
Further south, across the Jonstown to Jarolar Keep Road from
the Red Cow is the Two-Pine clan of the Culbrea. They were once
trouble, but have been quiet in recent years; the Culbrea king is
a weak coward.
To the east, across the Heort Creek, are the Lunar Grantland
of Jomes Hostralos and the wilds of Stagland. Jomes is a strong
ally against the Telmori.
To the north of the Creek are your old enemies the Emerald
Sword clan of the Dinacoli tribe. You have feuded with them
many times.

NUMBER OF PEOPLE
There are about 1500 people in the Red Cow clan. Of that 830
are adults and the rest are children. Of those adults, 134 or so
have lived long enough to become elders of the clan (50+). These
elders are a significant asset to the clan in the preservation of tradition, knowledge, and magic. They are roughly equal numbers
of men and women.
The inner ring, the chieftain’s housecarls, the priests who do
not sit on the ring, the heads of the bloodlines and households,
and members of the chieftain’s household are thanes. Your clan
supports some 120 thanes.
Most adults work on the land as farmers, herders, hunters, and
fishers. Your clan has just over 330 carls who farm their own land.
Of the remaining adults of your clan, most work on the thanes’
farms as cottars. A small number, twenty or so, are destitute and
scratch a living on marginal and wild lands, working as charcoal
burners and firewood collectors, the ‘stickpickers.’

BLOODLINES AND HOUSEHOLDS
Your clan has six bloodlines. The bloodlines are divided up into
households, of which there are 30 in the Red Cow clan. A village
is typically one household, with an additional six households in
Red Cow Fort.
A typical household — and village — has 24 adults and 26
children. Of the adults 12 are men and 12 are women, of whom
six of each gender are married couples. Of the adults four are
thanes, 10 are carls, and 10 cottars. A typical household has four
long houses — long, narrow, single-roomed farmhouses. Two
thanes and their wives manage a house each. Both thanes have
four unmarried cottars working for them, and four children. The
remaining two houses have six adults: two carls and their wives,
an unmarried carl, a cottar, and their eight children. The thanes
and carls are usually within one degree of kinship, the cottars
come from any bloodline; the wives all come from ‘somewhere
else’ though on the borders it is usually from neighboring clans.
The household works 11 hides of land — a hide is the traditional

amount of land required to feed a family — and has 88 oxen for
plough teams, 30 other cows, 10 horses, 80 sheep, and 5 alynxes.
The four ‘old’ bloodlines are from the former the Drutorae clan
and trace their descent from Karganar’s Sons or their followers. The
two ‘new’ bloodlines came from clans annihilated by the Telmori.
All the bloodlines take the name of their founders.
• Largest of the bloodlines is the Tormakting, the descendants of Tormakt Stout-Hearted, second chieftain of the
clan, which has about 150 adults.
• The Sarostiping descend from Sarostip Breaker-Of-Men
and has about 100 adults.
• The Bolthoring descend from Bolthor Hairy-Breeks and
has about 100 adults as well.
• The Kerenelling trace descent from Kerenelli IndigoWarrior a son of the Blue Woman and Karganar from
when he went upon the Orlanth and Aroka heroquest.
Descendants of the Kerenelling bloodline often have a
bluish tint to their skin, and silver or white hair. They have
an affinity for the Water Rune and worship Heler. There
are around 60 adults in the Kerenelling.
• Sardal Dawn-Raid led the survivors of the Brusting clan to
safety after the Telmori slaughtered their clan in 1458. The
clan calls their bloodline Sardaling after him.
• The Osmanning were also once a clan in their own right,
bordering Stagland, but constant struggles with the Telmori
took their toll. By 1474, they were so few in number that
they could no longer stand on their own. Long alliances
with the Drutorae by marriage made it easy for the Osmann
survivors to merge with the Drutorae. After that merger, the
clan began calling themselves the Red Cow. Both of the new
bloodlines have around 60 adults.
Most of the bloodlines have as many children as adults and
a dozen elders.

MARRIAGE
Married women come from ‘someplace else.’ Many of the Red Cow
women come from Cinsina clans. Most of those come from the
Frithan and the Underwillow, with a few women from the Dolutha.
Numerous women come from the Red Cow’s friend and neighbor,
the Blueberry. They were once a Culbrea clan and are now part of
the Cinsina. Some women come from other old Culbrea clans: the
Goodhaven, and Greenhaft; these women tend to be among the
young mothers of the clan. The Red Cow rarely takes wives from the
Dinacoli or the Two-Pine because they feud with them. Sometimes
women come from further away such as the Malani or Torkani, but
usually within the Jonstown Confederation.
When a woman from the Blueberry, Frithan, or Underwillow
joins, she finds herself among cousins and sisters who have made
the journey before her. In the early days of her new life, she obtains
comfort in her former clan mates. These bonds frequently persist
and the relationship among Red Cow women from the same
maiden clan is often strong.
The Frithan, Blueberry and Underwillow clans have dominated
these kinship ties for generations. This has created strong bonds

Making Red Cow Characters

11

of kinship between the clans. Red Cow folk have many in-laws in
these two clans. Women who do not form part of these sororities
may come to resent their influence on Red Cow politics. The
one thing that unites women from the Frithan, Blueberry and
Underwillow clans is attempts by upstarts from the Goodhaven
or Greenhaft clans to influence the clan.

YOUR TATTOOS
Like all clans you have distinctive marks that display membership
of you clan — usually given at initiation. The Red Cow clan tattoo
is the head of an aurochs in black ink — the mighty cattle, sacred
to Urox, which once roamed Dragon Pass. Men have the tattoo
on their chests, women on their backs. It is a large tattoo, with
the massive horns reaching to either side of the back or chest, and
the snout of the animal reaching to the bottom of the sternum,
or the middle of the back.
In addition, people have rank tattoos on their arms, depicting
their roles as cottars, carls, thanes, priests, or chieftains and kings.
Most people have their runes tattooed on them as well, marking
their affiliation.
Some people have much more intricate tattoos, indicating
cultic affiliations in detail, marking life events, or heroquests, or
simply because they feel they enhance their beauty.

WAR OR PEACE?
You are a mixed clan, striking a balance between the violence of
Storm and the harmony of the Earth. Of the Old Gods of the
Celestial Court, Harana Ilor, ancient goddess of harmony and
peace, is the one most favored by your clan.

FACTIONS
Your clan politics is personal and factional. The factions are not
organized groupings with regular meetings or memberships but are
alliances of like-minded people. Their leaders might be members
of the ring, but sometimes hold no other position and qualify
only by their passion for the cause and willingness to cajole and
persuade their neighbors. Clan-folk do not use these names, they
know their kin’s political viewpoints. The labels are provided solely
as a player convenience.
The Free Sartar faction keeps the flame of Sartar alive. Their
numbers include supporters of the rebellion and guerrilla fighters
against the Empire. Many are loyal to Kallyr Starbrow and fervent
in opposition to the Empire. They seek to expel Jomes from the
old Maboder lands, punish the Moon Winds, and liberate Sartar.
Kullina the Fat, Farandar Orendalsson, Enerin Bristle-Beard and
Kernalda Other-Ways are among the leaders of Free Sartar in the
clan. Venharl Stormbrow and Orstalor Spearlord are the most
famous rebel leaders operating in Cinsina lands.
The Eye of the Hurricane faction is isolationist, believing
that involvement in the politics of the kingdom only leads to
suffering. Though the tempest blows all around, they know all
storms eventually blow out. They are the faction that refuses to
talk of the Hero Wars and keep the troubles of the world outside.
They want to raise families and cattle in peace and seek a peaceful

12

accommodation with the Empire. They respect Jomes alone
as a ‘fence of swords’ against the Telmori. Broddi Strong-Kin,
Lhankpentos the Blind and Griselda Gray-Tresses lead this group.
The Conquering Storm dreams of settling old scores. They
are angry at the tradition of Red Cow payment of tribute to the
Culbrea, and demand that the Red Cow continue to refuse to pay
it. They want to keep the Culbrea split and weak. They do not wish
the Maboder to return to their former lands, remembering many
blood feuds. The Dinacoli are old enemies and they are happy to
plunder the ‘Fat Tribe.’ This faction has long memories for old
feuds and slights and contains many of the clan’s traditionalists.
Darna Longcoat, Jaranil the Thunder, Salissa Three-Husbands
and Kangharl Black-Brow lead this faction.
The Wolfskinners hate and fear the Telmori above all else.
Jomes led them against the wolfmen a generation ago and they
would support him now. They do not trust Kallyr Starbrow. Ortossi
Ketilsson, Frekor Deep-Woods, and Borngold Many-Brothers,
who lead this faction, fear that Kallyr would give the werewolves
Stagland, in return for their support in the Hero Wars. They worry
that the Telmori would exploit conflict with the Empire to fall upon
the tribes south of the Creek. With every decision the question
for this group is, does it help us in the struggle with the Telmori?
The Moon Winds faction has converted to worship of the
Red Goddess, usually through the Seven Mothers. They cite the
example of the old chieftain Willem the Knowing who showed
hospitality to the Lunar missionaries. They seek closer ties to the
Empire pointing to the material and cultural benefits coming
from embracing the Lunar Way. Bolik Red-Turner and Tarkalus
Bigger-Boat lead this faction.

YOUR FRIENDS
Your friends stick by yours in your time of need as well as triumph.
You have a long history of friendship with the Blueberry, Frithan
and Underwillow clans. Many women marry into the Red Cow
from those clans. That means you have kin there: cousins, aunts,
and uncles. You would support these people whenever you could,
because they would do the same for you.
• Blueberry, Cinsina tribe
• Frithan, Cinsina tribe
• Underwillow, Cinsina tribe

YOUR ALLIES
An ally is someone who co-operates with you to mutual advantage.
You have alliances with the Erlending, Greenhaft, Orlmarth and
Toena clans. Sometimes your wives come from these clans. Some
of your kin live there. These people would help you, but expect you
to reward them for their help or a share of the venture’s proceeds.
Generosity is a virtue, so if you need help from these people take
them impressive gifts to win their support.
• Erlending, Torkani tribe
• Greenhaft, Cinsina tribe
• Orlmarth, Colymar tribe
• Toena, Aranwyth tribe

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 2

CLAN TREASURES
The Red Cow has thirteen great treasures. The clan holds
them for the good of all, but dispenses them to its representatives in times of need. The exact effect depends
as much on the ability of the wielder and the number of
participants in the ritual as the power of the item. The clan’s
Magical Resources subsume many of these items as well as
the wyter. Borrowing the clan’s Magical Resources might
involve the loan of one of these items.
• Bag of Winds: A leather sack containing Umbroli (see
Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes page 129), which can be
released in battle to fight the clan’s enemies.
• Esra’s Basket: Increases the yield of the clan’s barley
crops.
• Jerra’s Healing Broth Cauldron: The clan’s healers
can use this cauldron to produce a chicken broth that
helps fight disease and illness, or lift dampened spirits.
• Glass Butterfly: A magical glass butterfly that can
carry short messages. Used as an emergency messenger by the clan, often in Dark Season when snowfalls
prevent travel.
• Lightning Band: An armband studded with Air
Runes. Wearing the band gives the wearer the ability
to hurl lightning bolts from his spear tip.
• Mahome’s Fire Alynx: This bronze fireguard has
stylized sleeping shadow cats on the corners. A fire
protected by the guards gives warmth and light, and
uses little fuel, no matter the ambient conditions of
wind and cold.
• The Meteor Spear: Garan gave this spear to the
Red Cow to help their champions defend them in the
Darkness. The Meteor Spear has a 6-foot shaft made
from the hard black-wood of the Star Ash tree of the
Heavens. Carven images of the Sky World, and the
coming of the Star Captains to save mankind in the

YOUR ENEMIES

•

•

•

•

•

THE CULBREA

An enemy is someone who is in direct conflict with your clan.
Relations between your clans are difficult, often violently so.
Your clans are likely feuding or have in the past and have serious
ongoing disputes that have not been resolved.
• The Culbrea
• The Dinacoli
• The Dolutha
• Dragons
• The Empire
• Grazeland Pony Breeders
• Ogres
• The Telmori

•

Darkness, run up and down the length of the shaft.
The spear tip, a leaf-shaped blade, is made from
meteoric iron.
Orlanth’s Rattle: This oversized baby’s rattle, that
sounds like rolling thunder when shaken helps some
of the clan’s children grow faster to become warriors
— very useful in troubled times. The Red Cow used
Orlanth’s Rattle to replenish the clan’s ranks after
many thanes died in the Lunar invasion of 1602. The
“Rattle-Born” is a notorious group, because they grew
to physical maturity without becoming emotionally
mature at the same rate. The women would hesitate
to use Orlanth’s Rattle again — but the Hero Wars may
create such a need.
Thunderous Comb: This bronze comb helps
summon a thunderstorm to the clan lands when
combed through the hair.
Vargast’s Ring: This silver arm ring belonged to
Vargast Redhand. Vargast lured heroes to fight for
him, despite the desperation of his cause. The wearer
finds it easy to recruit thanes to go into battle for him
provided the conflict brings fame and glory.
Voriof’s Crozier: Gold plates this crooked staff along
its length and a golden ram’s head ornaments it. This
staff blesses the clan’s sheep and aids in finding lost
clansfolk or livestock.
Uralda’s Wagon: This huge oak wagon has 6-foot
diameter wheels and needs four oxen just to draw it.
A copper statue of Uralda the Cow Mother rides in
the cart. The god-talkers wheel the wagon around the
clan lands on Clayday to bless the clan’s herds in the
coming year.
The Red Cows: The clan’s thirteenth treasure is its
Red Cows, or more specifically the secret the clan
knows ensuring they are born to their herds.

The Culbrea envy your red cows. Sartar brokered an agreement
that if you gave the Culbrea cows, they would not raid you. The
Red Cow Tribute is one cow for every hundred Culbrea tribesmen.
This is an outrage. The Two-Pine are the worst of the Culbrea
bullyboys. That wretched clan prospers not by honest toil, bent
over the plow, but by bloody raids on their neighbors — the
Bloody Sword Tribute. Your clan has often been the target of
these howling raiders from the south. Only the weakness of the
king of the Culbrea, Ranulf Turn-Tail, has stopped this outrage.

THE DINACOLI
To the north, the Emerald Sword clan of the Dinacoli is an old
foe. You have fought with them many times and you are feuding
with them now — they have killed kinfolk and you have not been
paid in blood or cows for those deaths.

Making Red Cow Characters

13

The Dinacoli betrayed Sartar when the Empire invaded. They
embraced the rule of the Lunar Empire and grew fat and rich.
They prospered whilst you suffered from Imperial rule. Many in
the clan say that you should make the Emerald Sword pay for your
sufferings and take back from them what you lost.

THE DOLUTHA
The ambition of the chieftain of the Dolutha, Ivar Quickstep,
is destroying his clan. You have always had a rivalry with the
Dolutha, who live to the west of you. However, when the Empire
came, Ivar embraced their rule and grew rich and fat on the
Empire’s favor. His clan has turned to foreign gods. Few keep
the faith of Orlanth. He despises Queen Ivartha and instead

looks for allies among the Lords of the North, King Petrad of
the Dinacoli, and Harvar Ironfist of Alda-Chur.

DRAGONS
You fear dragons and their kin. All right thinking men should,
for the dragons killed every human that lived in the Pass five
hundred years ago, and these were the Haunted Lands for two
hundred years after that.

THE EMPIRE
The Empire rules Sartar now through the puppet king Prince
Temertain. However, the Lunar kingdom of Tarsh, not the distant Empire, is the greatest threat to your kingdom. Under their

THE RED COW AND OGRES
Some families within the Tormakting bloodline can trace
their descent back to ogres who survived the Darkness by
worshipping Wakboth the Devil through his son Cacodemon.
Most are unaware of this heritage, but from time-to-time
the taint re-emerges and ogres trouble the Red Cow clan
again. If the clan breaks Orlanth and Ernalda’s laws, such
as participating in kinstrife, then the clan loses the gods’
protection and this taint is more likely to emerge.
At their initiation the sons of these families may reveal
this taint. The taint’s emergence may skip entire generations. Within the Red Cow, the taint is only passed down
the male line.
The children of those who have embraced their ogre
nature always encounter different choices during their initiation. The Red Cow ring knows of this possibility and in
questioning youngsters about their initiation experiences
watches for those who return ‘tainted’. The ring kills those
identified as ogres without hesitation, and disguises this
from the wider clan as a rare death during initiation. Only
the ring knows this secret, and would not reveal it outside
the clan for fear of the reaction.
However, when generations have passed without children
born with the taint, the ring grows less observant and new
adult ogres may slip through. This is even more common if
an ogre father concealed his identity and passed on initiation
survival secrets to his sons.
Red Cow boys who possess this taint find it emerges when
the men come to take them from their homes and put them
under a blanket for the initiation rituals. The boy is overcome
with lustful feelings. He sees women around the camp who
flirt and tease them but never allow union. Whenever the boy
mentions the girls in the camp, the men mock and pull him
back to weapons training. The other boys talk about receiving
instruction on sex, but he never receives it.
Orlind the Handsome Man, a figure the boy never knew
was part of the clan keeps taking him aside for instruction
during the initiation. Orlind tells the boy tales of Ragnaglar,
son of Umath, in which Ragnaglar is a brave warrior and
defender of Umath’s camp. He learns that “no one can

14

make you do anything” and “violence is always an option.”
One day, a beautiful girl leads the boy on, kissing and
toying with him. When she refuses to couple with him,
Orlind appears and tells the boy “violence is always an
option, take her if you want her.”
If the boy refuses Orlind kills him. If the boy knocks her
to the floor he is overcome with powerful feelings of lust
and rapes her crying, “no one can make you do anything.”
Orlind tells the boy to hide what has happened from the men.
When the boy goes to Orlanth’s Hall, the girl appears
and accuses him of raping her. Orlanth flies into a rage and
banishes the boy, his breath driving the boy from the hall.
Orlanth tells him he is an outlaw and that any man may kill him.
The darkness outside Orlanth’s Hall is dreadful and filled
with monsters.
Orlind appears and takes him back to his hall. Strangely,
goats crop the grass outside the hall not sheep, and dogs
bark to welcome Orlind home. It is cold and icy, and the hall
is welcome with a bright fire burning, and meat cooking
on a spit. Handsome warriors and beautiful women fill the
hall. Orlind welcomes the boy to the hall and offers him
hospitality: water, a place to sleep on the benches, and
finally meat from the table.
Orlind tells the boy that these are the people of Ragnaglar,
who showed the people how to separate between the weak
“who were only fit to be treated as cattle” and the strong
“who should rule.” He also showed them the magic that
eating people’s flesh would make them strong. The initiate
then realizes that the spit holds a human body, and one of
the women of the hall slices off slivers onto a trencher and
brings it to the initiate. “Eat this,” Orlind tells him “and you
will grow strong and handsome as we are, and you will be
stronger than the men around you.”
If the boy does not eat the flesh, Orlind kills him. If the
boy eats the flesh Orlind shows the boy that he now has the
Chaos Rune (?) as well as the Air Rune (g). Orlind then tells
him that some men call him Cacodemon. He also explains
that the boy must hide his true nature, because the “weak
fools will be frightened of you and try to kill you.”

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 2

king, Yarandros the Charger, they once governed all these lands.
Now they are servants of the Lunar Empire and ride its coat tails
to govern for their king in Sartar once again.

TELMORI

Your clan listened to the missionaries from the Lunar Empire
to the north. When the Empire came, you were even ready to
listen to their Governor. Some of the clan found comfort in the
words of the Red Goddess and joined the Provincial Church.
More than any other, the Sardaling bloodline welcomed the new
ways of the Seven Mothers. You call these people Moon Winds,
red-turners, and the ruptured. You tolerate their different ways,
much as the old chieftain Willem the Knowing did. The outlaw
priest Ashart Dusk-Eater says that the Red Moon is a wound
in Orlanth’s side and calls for Broddi Strong-Kin to outlaw the
red-turners.

You are descended from Yinkin and have always been an enemy
of dogs. The Telmori werewolves to the east are just the latest
dog enemy that your people have faced. You can never trust a
Telmori. They are your worst enemy. Remember that. They are
even worse than the Dinacoli. The Dinacoli are at least people
you can reason with. They are even worse than the Culbrea.
The Culbrea at least bleed when you stab them. They are even
worse than the Lunar Empire. The Empire brought some good
with them.
The Royal House of Sartar made peace between you and
the Telmori. After the Empire came, the Telmori annihilated
the Maboder tribe. Only the leadership of Queen Ivartha the
Skinner and the heroism of Jomes ‘Wulf ’ Hostralos saved the
rest of you. They led you in a war against the wolves, a war
that you won.

JOMES

YOUR GODS

THE RED GODDESS

Jomes Hostralos holds part of Stagland in grant from the Red
Emperor. You are glad to have such staunch allies against the wolfmen as your neighbors in Wulfsland. However, the descendants
of the Maboder tribe demand their old lands back. No one is sure
what to do, because Jomes is a foe of the Telmori. The wolfmen
haunt your borders and they would murder you in your bed if
they thought you were weak. Still, the Maboder survivors follow
Orlanth and Ernalda.

GRAZELAND PONY BREEDERS
When you arrived in Dragon Pass, you fought with the Grazeland
Pony Breeders. Many of your ancestors’ kin became slaves to the
horse lords. You have had poor relations with the Pony Breeders
who still consider your land their territory. They are too far away
to be a regular threat.

OGRES
Your clan has often struggled with ogres. They tried to destroy
you in the Great Darkness and continue to do so. You should be
on your guard for ogres, who eat human flesh to live.

THE AUROCH BRINGERS
The aurochs once roamed throughout Kerofinela. The old
prophecies say, “When the Argrath comes we will hunt
aurochs once again in Dragon Pass.”
The stockmen of the Red Cow clan want to bring back
the great aurochs to Sartar. The results of their heroquesting
so far are the clan’s red cows. Soon they hope they will
learn the secrets that let them raise aurochs again. Anyone
who has participated in the quest of the Stealing of the
Giant’s Cows is counted amongst the Auroch Bringers.
The Auroch Bringers are the mightiest stockmen among
the tribes of the Quivini; the fame of their cows has drawn
raiders from everywhere and is the lure to the Lorthing
Vale raiders. Outsiders seek their secret knowledge hoping
to found their own herds of red cows.

The Red Cow worship Orlanth and Ernalda as their most important deities.
• Ernalda exl — 336 initiates, 6 devotees
• Orlanth gsW — 221 initiates, 4 devotees
• Barntar gF — 80 initiates
• Seven Mothers x/t — 60 initiates
• Heler ws — 40 initiates, 1 devotee
• Yinkin Y — 25 initiates
• Odayla gC — 20 initiates, 1 devotee
• Engizi the Skyriver Titan ws — 20 initiates
• Vinga gsW — 15 initiates
• Issaries hs — 8 initiates
• Humakt ty — 5 initiates, 1 devotee
The Kerenelling bloodline traces their ancestry to the Karantuel
‘Cloud Folk’ who the Red Cow’s ancestors adopted in the
Vingkotling Age. Many Kerenelling boys and girls have a blue
tinge to their skin and white hair. Many of these people have an
elemental Rune of Water (w) instead of Air (g) or Earth (d) and
worship Heler. These Heler worshippers are also initiates of the
Engizi sub-cult (see Sartar Companion, page 265).
Many of the Sardaling fishermen have the elemental Rune of
Water (w) instead of Air (g) or Earth (e) and worship Engizi,
approaching him either through the Rune of Water or the Rune
of Movement. They often initiate into another Orlanthi deity
as well, sometimes Heler. Much of the Sardaling bloodline has
converted to the Seven Mothers; most believe it is because they
feel ignored by the clan’s leadership.

YOUR THUNDER BROTHER AND
ANCESTRAL HERO
You trace your descent from Yinkin and all dogs, the descendants
of Narga, are your enemies.
You descend from Vingkot by his daughter Orgorvale Summer.
Orgorvale Summer was married to Ulanin the Rider.

Making Red Cow Characters

15

During the Great Darkness, Garan the Low Star, the star lover
of Serias, came to the aid of your people and you called yourselves
the Garanvuli. Whitewall is your ancestral home.
Your clan has a special affinity with Heler, the rain god, and
Orlanth’s staunch companion. You honor him in your ceremonies
and rejoice when the rains come in Sea Season. You keep a shrine
to honor the watery god and Engizi, the Skyriver Titan.

chieftain comes into the chamber to talk to Many-Breath. Here he
can see the ghostly form of Many-Breath and hear his voice.
The refugees were from different backgrounds and origins in
Heortland. The Red Cow’s mythic history is Many-Breath’s mythic
history, up until the point where he dies in the Storm Age. The
clan inherited their identity from Many-Breath.
Many-Breath has the Air Rune (g) and the Movement Rune (s)

YOUR HEROQUEST SECRET

WYTER ABILITIES

Your clan knows the secret of the Stealing of the Giant’s Cows. That
is where the clan’s red cows come from.

YOUR WYTER: MANY-BREATH gs
Many-Breath is your clan wyter. The refugees, who would later
became the Red Cow, came to this land when the Colymar exiled
them from the Durulz Valley. They were not a clan then, and they
did not even have a leader. When they reached Grave Hill, the
refugees recognized it as a barrow mound, a sacred place of the
ancestors from the Storm Age.
The refugees made overtures of friendship and peace to ManyBreath, whose burial mound Grave Hill was, and he made his
demands for recognition and respect. The people made their demands
for protection, and Many-Breath made his demand for inclusion.
Many-Breath then asked the people to choose a leader who would
speak for them. The people chose Karganar Blood-Eye and in turn,
he chose his ring. The clan was the Drutorae then, and did not
know the secret of the red cows.
Many-Breath is Grave Hill. His soul is present in the soil and
stone of the barrow mound within which he was buried. His bones
still lie on a wagon cart, within the burial chamber at the heart of the
mound, surrounded by pottery, bronze swords, spears, and daggers.
A golden torc lies at the skeleton’s throat and a golden funeral mask
with stylized features covers his face. Remains of a chariot have
mostly rotted away, only a few metal fitting endure. Disturbing
Many-Breath’s remains or stealing his treasure would be a terrible
crime and the clan would hunt any thief down and kill them. The

THE BOY WHO STOLE APPLES
Ulanin the Rider called Many-Breath to his household
when he was young, when the boy stole fruit from his
orchards. ‘Good raiders are born, not found,’ Ulanin was
fond of saying. A great rider and warrior, Many-Breath
grew to make good Ulanin’s prediction bringing home
glittering prizes to glorify his lord’s hall.
A noted wolf-fighter, he drove off the Telmori attacks
even when they came like waves. He saved the people at
‘Seven Bright Feathers’ by skating to warn them.
Many-Breath became king of the Orgorvaltes. He led
them to many victories, but ogres infiltrated the tribe and
betrayed him. In the end, his doom was to see his sons
die before him, leaving only daughters. He died astride his
horse, leading his thanes into battle against his enemies.

16

Your Wyter has the following abilities:
• Cause Rainstorm
• Drown Ogre
• Find A Way Out
• Get Help From The Stars
• Open Asrelia’s Larder
• Rain that Burns Chaos

CLAN HERO
ULANIN THE RIDER s
Ulanin the Rider was an ancient Vingkotling Hero. With his
deeds, Ulanin proved himself worthy of wedding Orgorvale
Summer, the daughter of Vingkot, and their descendants founded
the Orgorvaltes tribe.
You descend from the Orgorvaltes and consider Ulanin among
your ancestors. Ulanin is important to you because without him
there would be no red cows. Every year the clan performs the Stealing
of the Giant’s Cows; success means red cows will be born amidst the
clan’s herds that year, failure that only normal cows will be born.
The clan has a shrine to Ulanin in Red Cow Fort, and the clan
offers sacrifices to Ulanin for success in cattle husbandry and raiding.
Ulanin the Rider is the default sub-cult for any member of the
clan approaching Orlanth through the Movement Rune. In addition
to the normal uses of the Movement Rune a follower of Ulanin
can use their Movement Rune to: heal a horse, make a horse fight,
perform great leaps on horseback, ride a horse in combat, speed a
horse, stay mounted, talk to a horse, and tumble a horse and rider.

s ULANIN’S THUNDEROUS CHARGE FEAT
Ulanin always led the Orgorvaltes’ charge from the front, forming
the thanes into a flying wedge. Few could stand without running,
as the wind lifted the hooves of his horses to speed them at their
foes. Their lances coursed with lightning and when their spear
points struck the enemy shield wall there was a clap like thunder
that tumbled his enemies leaving them reeling and stunned. With
the enemy line broken, Ulanin would lay about him with his
sword, crushing helms, decapitating heads, breaking collarbones.
His horse reared and plunged in unison trampling his enemies
under hoof. With the enemy in confusion, Ulanin would rally
his companions despite the battle’s din to return to his own lines.

CLAN MILITARY
Your clan can muster some 375 men and women for war. All
adult members of the militia are members of the warband, but
most form a reserve to the thanes called up only in time of need.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 2

THANES
Your clan has fifty fighting thanes. The muster includes the clan
chief, warlike council members and priests, bodyguard housecarls
and other thanes, such as the heads of the bloodlines.
Your thanes know how to fight whilst mounted, following
the traditions of your ancestor Ulanin the Rider. When fighting
mounted, a thane charges his enemy, hurls a javelin and wheels
away from the line, hoping to break it. Once the enemy line is
broken a thane dismounts to press the fight.

MILITIA
Your clan militia or ‘fyrd’ numbers a hundred and sixty-five
men and women, the better-equipped carls. They wear at least a
quilted and padded jerkin or doublet, and wear helmets. Some
are better-armed and armored, with good axes and metal armor;
they form the ‘short-call’ — those most able to muster at short
notice — such as when the clan is raided by its enemies.
The leaders of the bloodlines or their appointed thanes lead
the militia.

SKIRMISHERS
These include young men and women, and the poor who do not
have armor or weapons sufficient to be in the militia. They are
scouts and skirmishers. They do little more than engage in missile
fire with slings, javelins, or bows against enemies.
Your clan musters a hundred and fifty skirmishers.

to start at 1W. As an Orlanthi male, Erik takes the Air Rune for as
well, and he takes the Life Rune to represent his character’s love
of bedding the young women of other clans.
Erik decides that his Narrative Hook is that as the Hero Wars
approach he will lead his clan on the path of vengeance; vengeance
against the Telmori for the blood debt of the past, vengeance against
the Emerald Sword clan of the Dinacoli who murdered his father.
To cement his status as a Telmori killer, Erik takes Breakout
Abilities of an iron knife and arrows (to better cut werewolves
with). He also breaks out an Ability under his Yinkin Initiate
to represent his adventures as a lover. He adds an Ability to his
Heortling keyword for his hatred of the Red Cow’s traditional
enemies: the Dinacoli. Finally Erik adds the Flaw of The Emerald
Sword Killed My Father, meaning he will find it hard to react
peaceably in encounters with the northern neighbors.
In spending his points, Erik decides to make his Hunter keyword
his best Ability and spends 10 points improving it. Erik adds two
points to his dominant personality trait.
Erik has not added any specific relationships to Red Cow
NPCs, bloodlines, or factions. After some discussion with Neil,
Erik and Neil agree to let these emerge during play.
Erik also defines his appearance. He describes him as having:
long lank dark hair, a short, ill-kept beard, piercing blue eyes and
a deep green hooded cloak, trimmed with wolf fur.
Background
Hero Name: Olend Many-Moods

HELPERS
The clan musters with around 25 helpers. They typically include
healers, messengers, bearers and laborers, and whatever specialists
might be helpful to the situation.

Player Name: Erik
Campaign: The Coming Storm
Culture: Heortling
Community: Red Cow Clan 13

EXAMPLES OF
CHARACTERS

Concept
Occupation Keyword: Hunter 7W
Iron Arrows +2
Iron Hunting Knife +2

Neil decides to narrate a HeroQuest Glorantha game set amidst
the Red Cow and gathers his gaming group to make characters.
The players Mark, Ben, Jeff, Kerstin, Erik, and Claudia glance
through the first three Books of Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes and read
the Making Red Cow Characters chapter of The Coming Storm (or
at least listen to Neil’s summary of them). Neil also consults the
Sartar Companion to answer questions about Heler.
Neil explains the parameters of the game from Preparing for
Play. He then asks everyone to ensure that they have a Narrative
Hook that says how they will help their clan survive the Hero Wars.
The players create the following characters. Keywords are in
bold for ease of reference.

THE VENGEFUL HUNTER
Erik’s character conception is a backwoodsman who is confident
in the wilderness and is skilled at tracking down the Red Cow’s
enemies: the Telmori. He takes as his keyword Hunter. Erik decides
that he should be an initiate of Yinkin and picks the Yinkin Rune

Standard of Living: Common
Distinguishing Characteristic: Vengeful 15
Runes

g Air 17
f Yinkin 1W (lustful, curious, loyal)
Initiate of Yinkin
Flee Jealous Husband + 2

x Life 13
Other
Keyword: Heortling Culture (Red Cow) 13
Hate Dinacoli + 1
Flaw: The Emerald Sword killed my father 7W

Making Red Cow Characters

17

THE RATTLE-BORN WARRIOR
Mark is inspired by Neil’s description of the ‘Rattle-Born,’ babies
brought to early maturity by placing Orlanth’s Rattle in their cradle
when the clan needs warriors. He decides he wants to play a warrior
who struggles with the issues caused by the lag between his physical
and emotional maturity. After discussion, Neil suggests that Mark
takes the Rattle-Born distinguishing characteristic as a keyword not
an Ability, as Mark wants to break out a number of abilities under it.
Mark decides that his Narrative Hook is that he will prove the
virtues of the Rattle-Born to the doubters in the clan. He will be
a bold warrior who gives no quarter to the clan’s enemies, but
also embody Orlanth’s virtues so that the clan learns to honor
the Rattle-Born too.
Mark takes his three runes from the suggestions under the
Mercenary keyword from Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes (which is
much the same as Warrior in HeroQuest Glorantha).
After taking his five Breakout Abilities Mark decides that his
encounter with Orlanth’s Rattle has strengthened his connection with
Storm, and so spends 4 points to raise his Air Rune up to 5W. He
spends another 4 points to raise his mercenary keyword, and 4 points
on Rattle-Born — Mark really wants to emphasize his origins in play.
Neil suggests that he earn his keep as a bodyguard or housecarl
to one of the Rivals — and Mark picks Kangharl Black-Brow
as the most appropriate, taking membership of the Tormakting
bloodline. Finally, for Flaws he also takes Rattle-Born representing
his immaturity; Neil decides that the Rattle-Born Flaw will be at
the same level as his keyword.
For appearance, Mark decides that he is baby-faced and cannot
grow a beard yet, but he is tall, bull necked, and ripples with
well-defined muscles.
Background
Hero Name: Londrol Spear-Rattler
Player Name: Mark
Campaign: The Coming Storm
Culture: Heortling
Community: Red Cow Clan 13
Housecarl to Kangharl Black-Brow +1
Member of the Tormatking Bloodline +1

Other
Keyword: Heortling Culture (Red Cow) 13
Keyword: Rattle Born 1
Berserker Rage +1
Big and Strong +1
Flaw: Rattle Born 1W

THE FEARLESS HEALER
Claudia decides she wants to play a healer, and she chooses the
Harmony Rune at 1W from the suggested runes for a healer.
Claudia also decides that her healer is no wallflower and chooses
fearless as her distinguishing characteristic.
Thinking about a Narrative Hook, Claudia is inspired by Neil
talking about the Maboder, the Cinsina’s neighboring tribe who
the Telmori annihilated. Claudia decides that her character is an
adopted Maboder refugee. Claudia decides she will re-found the
Maboder tribe when the Hero Wars come.
Claudia also chooses the Earth Rune, and decides to take the
Life Rune so that she has all of Ernalda’s runes. Neil suggests
that, as a Maboder refugee, the chieftain, Broddi Strong-Kin,
adopted her into his household. Claudia decides that Broddi
has spoilt his adopted daughter and showered her with fine
jewels and clothes. Neil tells Claudia that she can use that as a
Wealth Ability.
Neil also suggests that she might like to be a member of the
rebel movement — the Daughters of Mabodh — so Claudia
takes a relationship with Enastara the Red, the rebel leader. After
discussion with Neil, Claudia takes these Breakout Abilities
under her Heortling (Red Cow) keyword as they represent her
background.
Finally, as a Flaw, Claudia decides that she is Haughty and thus
has trouble making friends.
For appearance, Claudia decides that she has luxurious long
raven hair, artfully arranged in braids and a fillet. Claudia decides
that she always wears rich clothes, and has a necklace of golden
lily shaped-beads — a present from her father.
Background
Hero Name: Maklami Friend of Heroes

Concept
Occupation Keyword: Mercenary 1W

Player Name: Claudia

Standard of Living: Common

Campaign: The Coming Storm

Distinguishing Characteristic: Rattle Born
(see Other)

Culture: Heortling
Community: Red Cow Clan 13

Runes
Concept

g Air 5W
Initiate of Orlanth (passionate, proud,
unpredictable, violent)

s Movement 13W

Occupation Keyword: Healer 2W
Standard of Living: Prosperous
Distinguishing Characteristic: Fearless 17

t Death 13

18

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 2

Runes

Background
Hero Name: Rastalulf the Tall

e Earth 13

Player Name: Jeff

l Harmony 13W
Initiate of Ernalda (forgiving, merciful, peaceful)

Campaign: The Coming Storm
Culture: Heortling

x Life 13
Other
Keyword: Heortling Culture (Red Cow) 1W
Adopted Daughter of Broddi Strong-Kin +1
Fine jewelery, clothes, and cosmetics +1
Follower of Enastara the Red +1
Flaw: Haughty 2W

Community: Red Cow Clan 13
Rival to Kangharl Black-Brow +1
Loyalty of Enerin Bristle-Beard +1
Concept
Occupation Keyword: Thane 7W
Herds of Red Cows +1
Bronze Cuirass, Greaves, and Helm +1
Standard of Living: Prosperous

THE HONORABLE THANE
Jeff listens to Neil’s description of the Red Cow’s fame coming
from their cows and decides he wants to be a cattleman. At first
Neil thinks that Jeff wants to be a herder, but Jeff, a lover of
westerns, says that he has in mind a cattle baron along the lines
of the character Chisum, played by John Wayne in the movie of
the same name. Neil suggests Jeff take the Thane keyword and
Jeff agrees, identifying honor as the trait that most characterizes
the Chisum character for him.
For a Narrative Hook, Jeff decides that he is paternalistic
toward the community and wants to prove himself as a leader of
men, who will shepherd the clan through the dark days ahead.
Jeff decides that he even has ambitions for the chieftaincy himself,
and wants to position himself against the Rivals.
As well as the Air Rune, Jeff chooses the Mastery Rune to
represent his leadership of men, and the Truth Rune to represent
that he is a man of honor. Jeff decides to take the Mastery Rune
at 1W and approach Orlanth through it. One of the abilities Jeff
breaks out from his thane keyword is Bronze Cuirass, Greaves, and
Helm. Jeff imagines him in full panoply, and intends to use the
Ability not just in combat, but also to impress and intimidate. Jeff
also takes a specific Ability for his Wealth — a herd of red cows.
He spends 10 points on his Thane keyword to raise it to 7W; Jeff
sees him as an established older man, and he wants to reflect his
experience running a ranch.
Jeff also takes relationships with Kangharl Black-Brow of the
Rivals, as a direct competitor in clan politics. Jeff decides that
his own bloodline is the Bolthoring and takes a relationship
to Enerin Bristle-Beard, knowing his ambition needs their
support. Finally, he takes the Flaw of Trusting — Jeff decides
that he likes to give people a second chance and can be taken
advantage of.
Jeff describes him as tall and skinny, with short dark hair, a
weather-beaten face, and a simple mustache and goatee beard.

Distinguishing Characteristic: Honorable
(see Runes)
Runes

g Air 13
l Mastery 1W
Initiate of Orlanth
Honorable +1 (proud, just, authorative)

y Truth 13
Other
Keyword: Heortling Culture (Red Cow) 13
Flaw: Trusting 7W
Unspent Ability Points: 2

THE LAUGHING MERCENARY
Kerstin decides that she wants to play a warrior woman, whose
sense of humor comes out even in the direst moments. Neil tells
Kerstin that she could worship Orlanth through Vinga; Kerstin
wants something a little different so she asks Neil about other
options. Kerstin sees Humakt as too dour for her concept. Instead,
Kirsten decides to be one of the Kerenelling bloodline who have the
Water Rune and follow Heler. She takes the Movement Rune and
Life Runes as well. Kerstin takes the Water Rune at 1W. Kerstin
decides to join the Engizi sub-cult at the start of play.
Kerstin decides for her Narrative Hook that she is a mercenary
who has made her living fighting for coin for many years, but
despite a cynical exterior now seeks something more. After some
conversation with Neil, Kerstin decides that she is torn between
Orstalor Spearlord the rebel leader, and Borngold Many-Brothers,
her bloodline elder. She sees the Hero Wars as a conflict for her
soul. She takes relationships with both from her Breakout Abilities.
For Flaws, Kerstin first looks at the suggested traits for the Water
Rune and decides that she is Impulsive. She then takes Unusual
Appearance, feeling that the way she looks will cause a reaction.

Making Red Cow Characters

19

Kerstin focuses on the unique traits of her bloodline for her
appearance: slate bluish skin and platinum blonde hair. Kerstin
decides that she wears loose flowing clothing, disliking confinement, and always wears her hair unbound.
Background
Hero Name: Barbessa Laugh-Much
Player Name: Kerstin
Campaign: The Coming Storm
Culture: Heortling
Community: Red Cow Clan 13
Follower of Orstalor Spearlord +1
Follower of Borngold Many-Brothers +1
Concept
Occupation Keyword: Mercenary 7W
Standard of Living: Common
Distinguishing Characteristic: Always Laughing 17

through his Movement Rune and so chooses that at 1W. Neil
suggests that as a cattle raider he should initiate to the sub-cult of
Ulanin the Rider, who has a shrine in Red Cow Fort and Ben agrees.
Ben chooses to take an alynx for one of his abilities as a sidekick.
He has read Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes and takes one of its three
abilities as the Yinkin Rune at 17. He takes the Alynx keyword
for another Ability at 17, and gives his companion Nine-Lives
for its Ability at 13, deciding it is a lucky cat. Ben has 15 points
to spend. He spends 4 points to raise the alynx’s Yinkin Rune to
1W and make it an initiate of Yinkin. He then spends 7 points
on its Alynx ability and 4 on Nine-Lives.
Ben then has to purchase other four abilities. He decides that
his relationship with the Talastaring girl is his Flaw, and a source of
trouble for him, not an asset. He discusses relationships with Neil.
Learning that Broddi Strong-Kin dislikes cattle raids, but one of
the Rivals Kangharl Black-Brow encourages them, Ben decides that
he is a sworn man to Kangharl, and a member of the Tormakting
bloodline. Ben also decides to take a Flaw, Broddi Disapproves, to
represent the struggle he has convincing Broddi to authorize his raids.
Ben describes his appearance as a short, wiry, man with red
hair and a red beard.
Background

Runes

w Water 1W (mercurial, capricious)
Initiate of Heler
Initiate of Engizi sub-cult

Hero Name: Koschei the Weary
Player Name: Ben
Campaign: The Coming Storm

s Movement 17

Culture: Heortling

x Life 13

Community: Red Cow Clan 15
Sworn Man to Kangharl Black-Brow +1
Member of the Tormakting bloodline +1

Other
Keyword: Heortling Culture (Red Cow) 13
Flaw: Impulsive 7W

Concept
Occupation Keyword: Cattle Raider 7W

Flaw: Unusual Appearance 1W

Standard of Living: Common

Unspent Additional Abilities: 1

Distinguishing Characteristic: Hard Bitten 15

Unspent Ability Points: 2
Runes

THE HARD-BITTEN CATTLE RAIDER
Ben has played a number of games of King of Dragon Pass and
knows that the Orlanthi often steal their neighbors’ cattle. He
decides that he wants to play a notorious cattle raider. After some
discussion with Neil, he decides to take Cattle Raider as his keyword over Mercenary. Ben determines that he has seen it all, and
chooses hard-bitten as his dominant personality trait.
Ben decides that his Narrative Hook is that his character has
fallen in love with a Talastaring settler in Wulfsland, who is a
worshipper of the Seven Mothers. He states that they keep their
love affair secret from their kinfolk, who would not approve of the
match, and that he feels conflicted about the hatred for the Moon
shown by many Orlanthi.
Ben chooses the Air Rune, Movement Rune, and the Death
Rune. He decides to initiate to Orlanth, but chooses to do so

20

g Air 13
s Movement 1W (adventurous, dynamic,
impulsive, reckless)
Initiate of Orlanth
Initiate of Ulanin the Rider
t Death 13
Other
Keyword: Heortling Culture (Red Cow) 13
Companion: Lucky Alynx 15
Alynx 20
f Yinkin 1W
Nine-Lives 17
Flaw: In love with Talastaring settler of Wulfsland 7W
Flaw: Broddi Disapproves 1W

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 2

• Chapter 3 •

THE RED COW
RED COW FORT
HISTORY

R

ed Cow Fort is a sacred site where Ulanin
the Rider killed the giant chieftain Bergilmer
and stole his cattle, including his prize bull
Gochbadun. Bergilmer’s clan built the megalithic
walls that surround the landward side of the fort.
The clan occupied this fort in the resettlement.
It was Maklan the Fat and Good who first followed
in Ulanin’s footsteps and performed the Stealing of
the Giant’s Cows. The clan and the fort take their
name from the sacred cows born into their herds on
years when the clan successfully performs the quest.
The clan is off the main royal roads of Sartar and
is mostly a tribal center. However, for caravans from
the south heading to Pavis, the Red Cow Trail from
Dangerford and on through to Stonegate, provides
a quicker route to the Pavis Road than heading
north to Herongreen. For this reason many caravans
heading out into Prax often take this trail, instead
of the royal road.

THE FORT
The sandstone promontory of Borden Hill rises 450’
above the surrounding floodplain of the Creek River.
Steeply sloping for the first 325’ the hill plateaus
out to form an ideal defensive location. Located on
a meander of Heort Creek, water surrounds Borden
Hill on three sides providing a natural moat.
The walls of the fort protect the open side and
surround the summit of Borden Hill. There are
three gates into Red Cow. The main gate faces the
landward approach. Two gates lead to the river, a
main gate to the northeast, and a narrower access
to the southeast.

POPULATION
Six hundred people live permanently at Red Cow
Fort. Of those about three hundred and thirty are
adults and the remainder are children. The people
live in twelve households, some 50 hearths, with the
largest household being the chieftain’s.
Of the adults, 48 thanes live here, many from the
chieftain’s household, and housecarls, and the ring

and priests. Fifty crafters — potters, bone, wood,
and stone carvers, smiths and cobblers — live in one
or other of the thanes’ households. Some 130 carls
and 120 cottars live inside the walls but farm the
lands around the fort. The clan musters some 65
militia, 60 skirmishers, and 25 helpers at Red Cow
for the defense of the fort, more if the majority of
the clan takes shelter in its walls.

ARRIVING AT
RED COW FORT
FROM A DISTANCE
Visible for many miles around, Red Cow Fort is not
just a refuge in times of trouble but a statement of
wealth and power.
A patrol led by one of the housecarls usually
meets visitors to Red Cow Fort, occasionally at the
gate, sometimes further out. They welcome the
travelers to the lands of the Red Cow and escort
them to Red Cow Fort.
Visitors by trail or road may find that their first
encounter is with a patrol of the Doblian Dogeaters.
The Dogeaters harass strangers, always on the lookout
for rebels, searching through belongings and trying
to root out troublemakers. They will then escort
them to Red Cow Fort.

RED COW FERRY
Red Cow is a crossing point of the Heort Creek.
Because of the trail to Stonegate from the King’s
Road, a ferry runs from dawn-to-dusk between Red
Cow Fort and the east bank of the Heort Creek.
The Heort Creek is some 80’ wide at this point,
and too deep to wade. The ferry itself is simple, a
large wooden raft, and two ropes stretched between
the banks of the Heort Creek. The ferrymen pull
the boat across the river using the two ropes. The
ferrymen let the ropes sink to the bottom when the
ferry is not in use.

RIVER TRAFFIC
There is little river
traffic on the Heort
Creek. The Duck Trade
Boats on the Creek
stop at Dangerford
as upstream from Isle
Dangerous the Creek
is unnavigable. Trade
between Dangerford,
Red Cow Fort, and
beyond to Stonegate
passes along the Red
Cow Trail by
mule instead.
What traffic there is on
the river is fishermen, in
Turtle Boats (see Sartar
Companion, page 65).
Most of these are singlefisherman sized boats,
but some will bear 2-3
fishermen and Tarkalus’
boat will carry six.
The fishermen only
rarely navigate the Creek
in search of fish. The fish
there is plentiful,
but the dangers of the
waters greater.

WEEKLY MARKET
Red Cow Fort has a weekly market on Wildday.
Travelers near the Telmori like the safety of the fort
on the day when the wolves are running and the
bothies are usually packed.

The Red Cow

21

Red Cow Fort is primarily a clan center; the clan stores a range
of locally produced commodities here: grain, surplus cattle (especially the red cows so important in sacrifice), salted and smoked
meat, fish, leather, wool, furs and hides. The produce is stored in
storage pits and huts raised on posts. The Red Cow’s redsmiths
and potters work at their forges and kilns and produce a small
surplus of pottery and bronze tools and weapons.
The clan trades the surpluses for goods that cannot be sourced
locally: salt and other spices, bronze, iron, linen, wine, oil, horses,
medicines and dyes. The primary trading partners are other clans
but Jonstown’s merchants also take some of the clan’s agricultural
surplus exchanging it for coin, which the clan uses to purchase
goods manufactured by the artisans of that city.

STAYING AT THE FORT
Although Red Cow Fort has a weekly market, it did not traditionally
have a recognizable ‘inn.’ The clan chieftain dealt with outsiders.
Thanes and their retinue, who have no kin to lodge with, stayed
in the mead-hall. Common folk stayed in one of the bothies under
his hospitality. The visitors in the bothies received a blanket, but
little else. Exceptions were sometimes made for ‘interesting’ visitors
without noble rank. The enterprising local women also served
cooked food and fresh ale, and provided washbowls and other
comforts — for a price. If a caravan was visiting the atmosphere
in the bothies became raucous.
In 1617, the Empire set up an inn at Red Cow Fort to cater for
merchant traffic that had no desire to board with Broddi. Many
bothies were knocked down to build the inn. Broddi chafes at the
insult to his hospitality. However, the Etyries cult has promised
Broddi that trade will flow into Red Cow with an inn.
Lunar officials tended to stay at the garrison and enjoy the
hospitality of the commander, a gesture that Broddi finds insulting,
suggesting that his hall is not good enough. Even Queen Ivartha
respects Broddi’s right to deal with outsiders.

ATTENDING THE MOOT
Clan folk come to Red Cow Fort for the moot. The clan holds
a moot in Sea, Earth, and Storm Seasons. Everyone makes an
effort to attend the Storm Season moot when the clan holds the
chieftain’s shout and the weapontake.
Speakers at the Red Cow moot do not stand upon a raised
‘rock’ so that the assembled clan can easily see and hear them.
Instead, the clan uses a theater cut into the side of Borden Hill.
Tiered stone benches overlook the Mooting Stage where the speaker
stands to address the assembled crowd.
The lawspeaker stands upon this stage to recite a third of the
law at the opening of every moot. At a trial, judge, juror, plaintiff,
and defendant all take their place upon the stage, in full view of
the assembled clan. When the ring addresses the clan, they do so
from seats placed in a semi-circle upon the stage.
Elders of the clan sit in the lower benches, closest to the stage.
The youngest members of the clan sit in the topmost seats, where
their elders can better ignore their youthful enthusiasm.
During the moot, throngs of people crowd the narrow spaces
in between the bothies, filling it with noise, smells, laughter,
and anger.

22

GATE GUARDS
The gate guards report to Jaranil the Thunder and he to Broddi.
The guards carry axes as well as a spear and shield, and have metal
helmets. There is always one thane on duty and they often have
bronze armor. The guards treat visitors with respect and courtesy,
but have little time for troublemakers. They take outsiders and
strangers to meet the chieftain or one of the ring.

GENERAL AUTHORITY ATTITUDES
The thanes of the clan are proud. The Cinsina have a noble history
fighting the wolfmen and have earned their name the ‘Brave Tribe.’
The ring is not hostile towards the Lunars. In the past, a respected
chieftain, Willem the Knowing, welcomed Lunar missionaries, and
the Red Cow remain unconcerned with the missionaries preaching;
however, they are less certain about the Empire the Lunars bring
with them. The ring is cautious towards rebels, fearing the trouble
that they might stir up, and remembering the price of Starbrow’s
Rebellion. The Empire is powerful adversary and the ring treats it
with respect. The thanes are suspicious around enemy tribes, the
Dinacoli and the Culbrea and watch such visitors closely. They are
usually open to flattery and gifts to ignore small offences or infractions.

TREATMENT OF TROUBLEMAKERS
Troublemakers are taken before the chieftain and the ring for
questioning. Cinsina troublemakers are exiled from the Fort;
a legal case is initiated against them in the next tribal assembly
(seeking fines and outlawry). Strangers are deemed to have violated their oath and the chieftain’s protection is removed. Heavy
fines and exile are common for crimes. Serious crimes can result
in execution by the housecarls.

VISITING THE CHIEFTAIN
Broddi resides in his mead-hall in Red Cow Fort. He willingly
sees visitors from within the clan and travelers from abroad. He
believes all news important and likes to be accessible. Broddi is
never alone though, four housecarls always stand guard and a
member of the ring is often present to offer the chieftain advice.
Newcomers speaking before the chieftain will be asked their
name, their background (clan, tribe, famous kinfolk), business,
and length they intend to stay. Broddi expects a gift appropriate
to the gift-giver’s station but is forgiving of non-Orlanthi who
may not know the custom. Broddi invites thanes, emissaries,
and wealthy merchants to stay in his mead-hall, but suggests
other visitors should lodge in the bothies. He will not suggest
they stay at the inn.

THE QUEEN’S PROGRESS
The Cinsina still practice hosting the king or queen in turn as
she travels around the clans. The queen spends each season with
a clan determined by lot in Sacred Time. Queen Ivartha is always
in Red Cow Fort in Dark Season, when travel is difficult. She is
also here when either the Red Cow or Dolutha’s turn comes up
according to lot. Although she should stay with Ivar Quickstep
when it falls to the Dolutha by lot, she does not feel welcome
there and continues to stay at Red Cow Fort. This causes some
muttering among the other clans because Queen Ivartha may be
at Red Cow for 2-3 seasons in a year.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

RED COW FORT

The Red Cow

23

HOW DO YOU LIVE?
You live in a longhouse. A longhouse is a long, narrow,
timber-framed building. The walls are of wattle-and-daub,
the roof of tiles. The ceiling is open to the top of the rafters,
which are used for storage. The floor is rough earth. Often,
the building is divided into three portions: stalls for cattle,
a single living space, and bedrooms. In richer houses the
cattle live in a separate byre. You eat, talk, and, if you are
a cottar who lives in a carl or thane’s house sleep, in the
main room. A stone lined cooking pit provides warmth;
if you don’t share the building with cattle it may run the
length of the building, with benches to either side. In your
bedroom, you have a mattress of straw with a feather quilt
with a sheepskin blanket for the cold winter nights. If you
are lucky, one of the village’s shadow cats may keep you
warm on cold nights. If you are a rich man, a thane or priest,
you might have a carved bed and a mattress stuffed with
goose and down. Furniture is scarce: a few pegs and chests
for storage, a trestle table for eating, and a weighted loom
for weaving. Outside there are barns, stables, byres, sheep
sheds, a pigsty, a smithy, other outhouses, muck-heaps,
and haystacks.
Men wear a simple knee-length tunic, and a wool cloak.
Your tunic is woolen and may be cinched with a buckled
belt. Thonged sandals keep your feet from getting too
muddy or wet. Your cloak is made of wool and you wear
it pinned on the right, so that your sword swings free. The
brooch holding the cloak and your arm and finger-rings
show your wealth. If you become a thane, you might have
a sacred torc to wear. In hot weather, you may just wear
a knee length skirt, and many of the followers of Orlanth

Queen Ivartha does not welcome newcomers to Red Cow Fort
when she is here, but does receive guests and petitioners for her
help. When she arrives her household fills the Great Hall, and
some of her household have to lodge at the Thunder Brother’s
Barracks. Queen Ivartha loves to hear tales of wolf killing. She
hands generous rewards to those who bring her wolf pelts, especially
those of Telmori wolves.

TOWN GOVERNMENT
There is no distinction between town government and clan government in Red Cow Fort. The chieftain of the Red Cow, Broddi
Strong-Kin governs here with the support of the ring.

PROPERTY
The Red Cow clan owns all land in the Red Cow Fort collectively,
apart from the tribal king’s mead-hall, which belongs to the tribe.
The Red Cow ceded the land used by Empire to build its fort here
after Starbrow’s Rebellion.

24

Thunderous wear nothing but their woad and tattoos.
More expensive clothing may have a tasseled fringe and
bright colors. You wear a broad-brimmed hat for working
in the fields in summer, and felt cap to keep your head
warm in winter.
Men favor beards or mustaches, in a variety of styles.
Women wear a wide sleeved, ankle-length linen dress,
sometimes pleated. A small disc brooch holds the neckline
opening closed. A bodice provides warmth if needed, and
sandals protect the feet. Wealthier women wear a pleated
skirt and bodice, which may be opened to reveal the breasts.
In winter a woman wears a short cloak with a mantle. Whilst
working, a women might wear a colored woolen pinafore
dress to protect her clothes; a pair of oval broaches fastens
the pinafore at each shoulder. A woman may also bind or
cover her hair whilst working.
Women wear their hair in a variety of styles. Traditionally
girls’ hair is loose, and mothers’ braided or up, but wealthier
women tease their hair into a variety of fashionable styles.
Both sexes wear sheepskin in the coldest parts of winter:
soft lined boots, leggings, and a jerkin or jacket.
You eat two meals a day, breakfast and supper. Breakfast
is usually barley porridge. Dinner is a stew of meat, chicken
or, fish and cheese. The meat is either smoked or salted to
keep it through the winter. You take some cottage cheese,
wrapped in a wet-linen cloth, out to the fields with you to
eat as a mid-day meal, usually with some seasonal fruits.
You always have barley bread. At feasts you may be lucky
enough to drink wine or mead; otherwise you drink ale
or buttermilk.

HOUSING
Red Cow Fort is a place of safety for the clan in times of danger.
People, and their cattle, can shelter within the walls of the fort.
Much of the fort is common land, for people to camp and animals
to graze when this happens.
The houses of Red Cow Fort belong to farmers who herd cattle in
the rich meadows along the Creek. The herders stable their cattle in
the byres here and stack hay from the rich meadowlands in large barns.
The houses cluster in households of four, sometimes five hearths.
A thane usually leads a household, with carls living in the other houses
who are within a degree of kinship of him. Cottars, who may be from
different bloodlines, provide labor for the thane and carls. A stone wall
surrounds the buildings belonging to each household — more as a
boundary marker and pen for the household’s animals than a defense.

CULTS OF RED COW FORT
See Page 15 for a full list of the cults of the Red Cow.
A stave-built building holds the shrine to Ulanin the Rider. It
celebrates his role in stealing Bergilmer’s cattle and providing the
source of the Red Cow’s wealth.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

The Lunars continue allow the honoring of Ulanin here, not
regarding it as banned “Orlanth worship.” This allows limited
sacrifice to Orlanth, under the guise of worshipping the clan’s
ancestor Ulanin the Rider.
The Loom House is a forty-foot square wooden building,
with shingled roof and buttressing; it fulfills the day-to-day needs
of the women of Red Cow and is the home of the Red Cow
Women’s Circle.

LOCATIONS
1. THE HEORT CREEK
Red Cow Fort lies on a meander of the Heort Creek, which
surrounds Borden Hill to the east, west and north. The Heort
Creek provides a natural moat restricting access to Borden Hill.

2. THE CLIFF
This section of the promontory has no wall — the steep cliff that
falls to the river here means that there is little fear of an organized
assault scaling the cliff at this point. Because of this, it is one of
the best viewing spots looking north toward the Donalf Flats, and
the locals often come here for the view.
The cliff has also become the place where locals throw their
rubbish into the Heort Creek below.

3. BORDEN HILL
The sandstone promontory of Borden Hill rises 450’ above the
surrounding floodplain of the Creek River. Steeply sloped for the
first 325’ the hill plateaus out to form an ideal defensive location.
The sandstone of the upper hill is hard, that of the lower hill
softened by the high water table. The sandstone splits causing
caves and narrow paths between rocks.
The plateau of Borden Hill is oval shaped and some 1500’
along its longest axis, and some 1000’ along its short axis.

4. WALLS
The inner wall is a box rampart. Two lines of wooden uprights,
joined at top and bottom form a series of boxes, filled with rubble
for strength. The front of the box is vertical and faced with dry-stone
walling. It stands 18’ high and is topped by a 3’ high dry-stone
wall breastwork, and is backed with a sloping rampart of earth
and rubble almost 30’ wide, adding strength and rigidity to the
inner wall. The ramp also provides the defenders easy access to
the battlements. The western, landward, side of the fort has two
additional walls that are not surmounted with a palisade, but have
a ditch between them.

5. STORAGE PITS
The storage pits here hold the clan’s supply of grain and barley.
Red Cow Fort is prepared to feed the clan for a year, secure within
its walls. Some suspect that the ring sealed treasures here too, safe
from confiscation by the Empire.

6. GATES
These are the gates into Red Cow Fort. The gates are made
of wood and the gateways themselves are short dry-stone wall
lined passages.

Carvings of ram and bull’s heads adorn the gates, and visitors
must pass “under the ram and bull.” Ramparts over the gateways
provide a platform for defenders to hold the gates against battering rams.

7. THE ROADS
From the perimeter of the fort the Old Roads spiral inwards toward
the citadel, tracing a Storm Rune, instead of taking the direct path.
The Old Roads have a brushwood foundation, covered in sand
and silt, and a surface of cobbles, smooth river stones.
When the Empire came they built the New Road, an earthed
road with a gaveled surface, from the gates to the citadel and to the
cliff beyond. Because the New Road bisects the fort, the missionaries
now say that the Moon Rune has replaced the old Storm Rune.

8. EASTSIDE
Eastside is the slightly larger of the two settled areas of the fort,
with seven of the fort’s households located here.

9. THUNDER BROTHER’S BARRACKS
Thanes visiting Red Cow Fort on clan business have the right
to stay in this hall, with their retinue. It is intended to provide
accommodation for those on clan business, whose household is
not within the walls. Adjacent to the barracks is a small stable for
the thane’s horses. The Thunder Brother’s barracks has a reputation
for strong drink, armed warriors, and trouble.

10. FOUNDER’S SHRINE
This stave-built building holds the shrine to Ulanin the Rider.
The clan’s carpenters have richly carved the doors and walls and
where the pillars touch the roof and gables.

11. THE GREAT HALL
This is the hall of the Red Cow chieftain and the center of his
household. It is grander than in many clans because Queen Ivartha

STORAGE PITS
Heortlings store the surplus grain harvested in Earth
Season in flask-shaped pits dug in the earth, six feet deep
and three feet across, made air- and watertight with a seal
of clay and covered with a mound of earth to prevent the
clay cracking and drying. This way of preserving grain,
particularly seed grain, is a secret of Asrelia; her followers
know that the grain sleeps, as Ernalda did in the Darkness,
and will not germinate. For convenience, ready food grain
is stored in granaries raised on posts, and transported
there once a pit seal is broken. Asrelia’s priestesses know
magic to reseal the pits if needed. Such pits also hoard
valuables in times of trouble against future need. With
the coming of the Lunars, many storage pits hide swords
and treasures away from prying Imperial eyes.
Hill forts and other tribal or clan refuges host many
such pits, sometimes a hundred or more, to guard the
stored grain and provide a larder for times of trouble.

The Red Cow

25

BOTHY
A bothy is a shelter
from wind and rain
available for anyone to
use. Usually a bothy has
one room with a hearth,
a raised sleeping platform
(to keep residents dry
and out of drafts) and
some tallow candles and
firewood. Typically, a
bothy can sleep between
2-8 people. Bothies can
be found in highland
areas as emergency shelter
for herders or travelers
in poor weather, but can
also be found in lowland
areas as temporary
accommodation. Many
are ruins made wind
and watertight to serve
as shelter, in other places
they may be wooden
cabins, or built from
un-mortared stone. Local
people usually maintain
a bothy, aware that their
own life could depend on
others doing the same.
Bothies are particularly
common in the lands
close to the Telmori, as
people often need to seek
safety on Wildday. Many
date from the Years in
Hiding, when Telmori
war parties threatened to
drive the humans from
the lands along
the Creek.

stays here when she visits, as part of her right to a
‘day-feed.’ The Cinsina preserve this tradition because
of the years when the Telmori overran these lands.
Within the hall, chieftain and king meet with
the ring, greet visitors to the clan, listen to the complaints and concerns of their communities, and hold
feasts to celebrate or mourn. When Queen Ivartha
is present, the hall becomes crowded.
Perhaps the finest building in Red Cow Fort, the
hall is 100 feet long, thirty feet wide, and twenty
feet high. The carpenters of Red Cow built the hall
strongly with thick-buttressed oak walls and pierced
by four doors, one in each long wall, and one at either
end. The clan’s artisans carved richly decorated posts,
doors, and gables. A louver in the roof lets smoke
out and light in. There are also slotted windows
high on the eastern wall, but most light comes for
the central hearth or torches bracketed to the pillars.
A long fireplace runs through the center of the
main hall; Mahome’s Fire Alynx means that it never
goes out or runs low on fuel. Murals painted on the
wattle and daub depict the struggles of the Cinsina
against the Culbrea, Dinacoli, and Telmori. The
murals are simple but of high quality. The furnishings
are of expert utility — the trestle tables easily bear
the weight of the reveler who jumps to them, the
firedogs rarely spill their contents into the hearth.
Interior walls partition the hall into four rooms:
the hall proper, a kitchen with stone ovens, and the
chieftain’s and king’s bedchambers. Retainers sleep
on raised platforms that run the length of the hall
between the pillars.

12. MARKET PLACE & THE GREENS
This is the market place. There is a weekly market
here. At the markets the goods sellers often take
over unoccupied bothies, which become a warren
of temporary shops, leaving the open ground to
the cattle market.
Like any Orlanthi town there is a Livestock Green
here — where purchased animals are displayed for
two weeks — so that any member of the clan can
point out they are stolen so that the transaction is
void. There is also a Treasure Green here — where if
anyone can prove ownership of something taken in
plunder, they get first choice of it when the treasure
is divided.

13. THEATER
The stone benches of the theater are cut into the
Big Cliff of Borden Hill. They overlook the flat
rock Mooting Stage, which has seven stone seats in
a semi-circle to its rear. Access to the theater is by a
path from the Theater Gate.
The theater is intended for the clan moot but
is used throughout the year by entertainers visiting
Red Cow Fort. Storytelling and puppet shows are

26

the most common entertainments here, but if a
Puppeteer Troupe visits, there may be singers, musicians, jugglers, acrobats, animal trainers, or other
exotic performers. This has made the theater a draw
for visitors from neighboring clans. Enterprising locals
provide refreshments when a show is on.

14. VISITOR’S BOTHIES
When the clan assembles for the moot, those who
cannot guest within the homes of kinfolk within
the fort pick one of these bothies as temporary
accommodation. During the moot, throngs of people
crowd these narrow spaces, filling it with noise,
odors, laughter and anger. Clan folk tend to have a
regular bothy where they and their ancestors have
gathered year-after-year. The bothies belong to the
whole clan but taking another family’s bothy would
be an insult. At other times of the year, these walls
shelter traders and clan folk who come to trade at
the seasonal market.

15. THE RED INN
Erinala Goodale whose pies and ale once warmed
visitors to the bothies converted to the Seven Mothers
and the Empire built her the Red Inn. The Etyries
cult hopes to attract traders to stop at the inn, on their
way to Stonegate, Toena, or Pavis. The Etyries cult
knocked down many of the bothies to make room
for the construction of the Red Inn — a move that
angered many who saw them as a manifestation of
Orlanth’s hospitality. People are outraged but the inn
fills with visitors and silver flows in Red Cow’s market.
The inn is three stories, with a common room,
bar, and kitchen on the ground floor and private
rooms for guests on the second, and for the innkeeper
and her family on the third. The Red Inn has stone
chimneys, built by masons from Jonstown, enabling
building on multiple floors despite the cold winters;
some members of the clan visit just to marvel at the
stone fireplaces. Even Queen Ivartha has supped ale
at the fireside here. There is a cellar beneath the inn,
where Erinala stores ale. The patrons tell wild stories of
secret tunnels under the Red Inn, running throughout
Borden Hill that can be accessed from the cellars.
Outside, there are a privy, raised storage huts,
and a stable where visitors may leave their horses,
for a price.
Erinala’s two daughters help her run the inn. A
great troll called Baztak acts as bouncer — although
most of the time he seems to drink in the cellar. No
one knows quite what Erinala did to attract Baztak
to her service, though the locals suggest he stays for
her cooking and beer.

16. WATCH TOWER
Watchtowers stand along the walls at regular intervals. Square wooden towers they rise some twenty

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

feet above the wall and provide a clear view of the
approaches to Red Cow. The younger warriors of
the warband take turns manning these towers, day
and night.
The Empire maintains its own watch from the
Lunar fort and does not interfere with the local
garrison.

17. WESTSIDE
There are only five households in the western settled
area, slightly less than in Eastside. Derik WoodShaper, the clan’s carpenter, lives here.

18. URN FIELD
The Red Cow builds funeral pyres to cremate their
dead and inters the urn holding the ashes here.

19. THE LUNAR CITADEL
Before the Empire came, the ground here was a
sacred space, intended for tribal ceremonies. The
Lunars took that land, after Starbrow’s Rebellion,
to build their citadel. In return, the Cinsina kept
their freedom and gained clans from the Culbrea.
The Empire chose this location because it is
defensible, surrounded by a twenty-foot deep ditch.
The ditch is V-shaped, seventy-five feet wide and
faced with rubble on its slopes. The earth from the
ditch is piled up to form a circular mound some
400’ in diameter in the center of Red Cow Fort.
This mound rises twenty feet above its surroundings,
making a thirty-foot climb from the base of the ditch.
A wooden bridge just wide enough for an ox
drawn cart provides access across the ditch. The last
section can be drawn back up in times of trouble,
isolating the Lunar citadel off from the rest of the fort.
A 12 feet high dry-stone wall surrounds the
citadel atop the mound. Another inner dry-stone
wall some 14 feet high is set 20 feet behind the outer
wall — making a difficult double wall for attackers.
Two forty-foot stone towers topped with battlements flank wooden gates across an entrance passage
piercing the two outer walls. The Empire keeps
watch from these gates. The Empire is welcoming,
“We Are All Us,” but the guards keep out anyone
without business within. Artisans, camp followers,
Imperial officials, missionaries, traders, and soldiers
are common visitors.
An inner courtyard houses the garrison, once
an open space used for ceremonies. Within the
courtyard is a final raised area some 15 feet above,
surrounded by an 8-foot wall and accessed by a
ramp. Originally this area held local shrines but
now it holds the Seven Mothers temple.
The Lunar citadel towers above Red Cow Fort
and intimidates the locals. They must constantly
gaze up at their new overlords who look down upon
them from their battlements. The effect on life in

Red Cow Fort is noticeable; people often glance up
to the citadel and nod, when they want to imply
that the Empire is always watching.
In the courtyard, wooden barracks house the
garrison. Each barracks room holds eight men. The
front portion of the room is an armory where the
troops store their armor, spears, and shields. The
rear portion houses bunk beds where the troops bed
down. Cooking, eating, and washing facilities are
separate and communal. The garrison commander
has separate quarters from his men, a two story stone
house with a chimney, built by stonemasons from
Jonstown. The first floor space is a hall where the
commander and his officers run the garrison. The
private quarters on the floor above are comfortable
compared to the barracks, but not luxurious.
The Seven Mothers temple is on the highest
point of the citadel. It is the center of worship for
the garrison and nearby clans — though most go
to the temples in Stonegate or Jonstown for the big
festivals. The Seven Mothers temple reflects the
Orlanthi culture of the provinces, not the Pelorian
culture of the goddess. Although built of stone it
is a great hall, long and narrow with a high ceiling;
engineers from Furthest designed the high vaulted
ceiling. The only ‘foreign’ element is the raised porch
in front of the entrance. The porch has painted
wooden pillars and a large portico where temple
business can be conducted. An altar in front allows
‘open-air’ services.
Wooden buildings alongside the temple house
the priestesses and servants of the Seven Mothers
mission. These homes are much the same as those the
Orlanthi use. From here, the faithful venture forth
to bring the word of the goddess to the backward
barbarians of newly conquered Sartar.

BOTHY (CONT’D...)
In Cinsina lands,
bothies may be
surrounded by a ditch
and bank enclosure,
topped with a wooden
wicker fence. A narrow
entrance funnels into the
enclosure. The perimeter
wall is to keep livestock
in but more importantly
to keep Telmori wolfmen
out. No one ventures far
from such shelters
on Wildday.
Those who use a bothy
should replace the
firewood and candles
that they consume. There
is no limit on the time
that a traveler can stay
in a bothy but custom
dictates ‘first-in, firstout’; those who arrived
longest ago should make
way for newcomers
who may have greater
need. Long stays are
discouraged because the
bothy is intended for
travelers.

20. LOOM HOUSE
A forty-foot square wooden building, with a shingled roof and buttressing; the fine Loom House of
Red Cow Fort fulfills the day-to-day needs of the
women of the clan and is the home of the Red Cow
Women’s Circle.

21. WILLANDRING’S FORGE
The giant’s forge is an enormous barn like structure,
thirty feet high. Despite his height, Willandring could
not stand upright inside, but his crippled legs mean
he pushes himself around in a cart. The interior is
large, and a great stone bench serves Willandring as
both bed at night, and a seat during the day.
There are three forges here, with stone hearths
and chimneys to take the smoke out of the building; Karganar had strangers build them at great
expense. The cost has more than repaid itself, this
is the finest forge outside Jonstown, and people
come from as far away as Stonegate, Dangerford,

The Red Cow

27

Torkan’s Last Fort and Toena Fort for work despite having their
own smiths there. Despite the size of the building, the forges
keep the building warm.
Although it is an earner of coin for the Red Cow, the forge
also consumes considerable resources and the Red Cow’s forests
have dwindled feeding the forges, its herds feeding Willandring.
Some look to the forests of Stagland as ideal for charcoal burners
to find new fuel — if it was not for the Telmori who hunt there.

BOLTHORINGHAM

THE RED COW
CLAN LANDS

BRIGHTWATER

The Red Cow clan lands form part of the drainage basin of the
Creek River, nestled in-between the Heort and Danda Creek. The
land slopes down from Two-Pine Ridge to the southeast toward
the Donalf Flats across the Creek. These are low-lying fertile lands,
good for breeding fat cattle, and with milder winters than in the
rugged Quivin Mountains to the south.

as if from great heat, perhaps a dragon’s breath. A lesser god, the
Shadow of Black Glass, cloaks the ruins in shadows, and there
is a chill in the air. Creatures of Darkness, fungi and insects,
thrive. Troll hunters from the nearby Sazdorf troll tribe (Sartar
Companion, page 232) sometimes visit the ruins in search of rare
foods and medicines.

The ancestral home of the Bolthoring bloodline. Bolthor cut the
trees and cleared the fields here during the Resettlement and the
people know many stories of the nearby landscape dating from
that time.

Once this village was on the border with the Split Waters clan of
the Maboder, now this village lies on the border with Stagland.
The Split Waters and Red Cow often feuded and raids fell upon
Brightwater. Since the destruction of the Maboder, the stead is
more peaceful. The bloodline pressurizes Broddi to allow them
to clear more land in Stagland for grazing.

BURNT OAK
This village lies close to the Burnt Wood. The village is mostly
Tormakting. The Burnt Oak was once the center of a Dryad Grove,
burnt down during the Resettlement. This village has trouble with
raids by the vengeful elves from the Stinking Forest.

GAZETTEER
ASHWATER FALL
A modest waterfall that falls some 20’ into a pool below, surrounded
by a dark grove of trees. This place is sacred to the Kerenelling
bloodline. Only those who worship Heler come here. Flat stones
along the banks of the Heort Creek above the falls serve as the
base for the funeral pyres where they burn their dead. Kin sweep
the ashes of their loved ones into the water when the pyre grows
cold and the Heort Creek carries their remains over the falls.
The grandmothers still tell of the funeral boat of Jarrigana the
Unmatched whom the clan burnt here.

BURNT WOOD
During the resettlement, the Red Cow cut down much of the
Stagland forest. The forest had grown during the Inhuman
Occupation with the elves seeding new groves from the Stinking
Forest. One grove of elves held out here until Karganar Blood-Eye
performed Helamakt’s Sivin Feat and burned the grove. Nothing
has grown here since.

CLOUDBURST

Kullina the Fat’s home. It is small, with only a single hearth
shared by Kullina and her family, her servants and her cottars
who work the land.

Kerenelli Indigo-Warrior founded this stead near to Ashwater Fall
and there has been a village of the Kerenelling bloodline here ever
since. There are fewer cows than elsewhere but sheep of every size,
provenance, and color abound. The village is the subject of local
gossip and scandal for the sexual mores of its residents.

BARROW MOUNDS

DANDA CREEK

These are a group of two-dozen barrow mounds on the clan lands,
the graves of Orgorvaltes heroes. The Barrow Mounds form part
of the clan’s sacred space and are at the heart of the clan’s rituals.
The clan does not allow outsiders to come here, and the clan
wyter protects this place. The Red Cow uses these mounds for
sacred rites, such as initiation and worship. Most are about 200
feet across and only 20 feet height but the largest, Grave Hill, is
150 feet high and 600 feet across.

A seasonal tributary of the Creek that brings the rains from
Two-Pine Ridge in the foothills of the Quivin Mountains. The
Danda is a small river even in Sea or Storm Season, but slows to
a trickle or even vanishes during Fire, Earth and Dark Seasons.
Even when in flood, it is easily forded at Fordstone, or crossed by
a simple bridge at one of the settlements up and down the flood
plain, such as the one at Harstal’s Lodge where the Red Cow to
Dangerford Road crosses.

BLACK GLASS RUINS

EORIC’S STEAD

Ancient relics of the Empire of the Wyrms Friends lie here. Huge
monolithic blocks of stone mark the remains of an EWF outpost.
A great statue of an armored man towers over the broken walls
and buildings. Much of the structure is melted like candle wax,

In 1596 raiders from the Split Waters clan of the Maboder tribe
burnt Eoric’s Stead to the ground, killing those trapped within.
For many years, ghosts haunted Eoric’s Stead, and no one could
re-settle the stead. Farandar Orendalsson exacted blood vengeance

BARLEY LODGE

28

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

The Red Cow

29

NYMPHS
Nymphs are a special type of female spirit entity, manifestations of the consciousness of nature associated with
groves, lakes, rivers, or meadows. The locality is both
home to and the body of a nymph. At will, the nymph
can form (or dissipate) a mobile humanoid body from the
substance of her home, permitting her to communicate and
interact with other beings. This manifestation is real, but
such a form limits the expression of her greater powers.
Nymphs usually take the appearance of a beautiful and
desirable female of whatever species they are speaking
with. When several beings look upon them, nymphs seem
to be different species to each, if they wish. They can even
appear as men when viewed by females. Nymphs manifest
the primal consciousness of desire, and so most nymphs
appear sexually attractive to sentient beings. Malignant
nymphs, however, reflect a deep sense of rejection and
are correspondingly hideous. The beauty or ugliness of
a nymph is magical, and causes similar reactions in all
humanoid races. Thus, even trolls find dryads alluring
and hags terrifyingly ugly.
A water nymph’s form is watery and malleable. This
allows them to swim effortlessly through water, and dodge
physical attacks by flowing around them.
Nymphs have many magical powers. They can control
the currents of the river, and the plants and animals that
live within it, reaching out to use their senses. Their magic
allows others to breathe underwater or to extinguish fires
and raise a concealing mist.
A nymph can sense all spirits within their home (even
foreign spirits), and they usually rule and defend the other
natural spirits and beings there. They cannot leave this
abode for if they do, they die and their former sacred
area withers and dies too.
In addition to their innate magical abilities, most nymphs
have several other talents they can use as active magical
abilities. In normal circumstances these phenomena appear
to just happen, or else seem to be performed by parts of
the nymph’s home; plants, shadows, or river currents, for
example, might conduct one of these talents.

the Orgorvaltes king Jostharlos Many-Breath. When the refugees
arrived here from Colymar lands, Karganar Blood-Eye negotiated
with Many-Breath to become the wyter for a new clan. The Red
Cow chieftain must still go to Many-Breath’s burial chamber to
consult with the wyter. This hill is the focus for the men’s worship
of Orlanth and the clan’s worship of Many-Breath.
Grave Hill is artificial, a stepped pyramid built of chalk excavated
from a surrounding ditch, whose seven tiers form a spiral pathway
leading to its top. At the summit, the pyramid is flat; the priests
use the platform here during the clan’s ceremonies.
Earth banks line each tier, so that from the side, Grave Hill
appears to be a grassy hill with a path spiraling around it.
Within the pyramid a passage leads to an inner chamber where
the remains of Jostharlos still lie upon a crumbling wagon cart,
surrounded by rich treasures. A ceremonial entrance with two
stone pillars and a lintel, carved with runes denote the entrance to
the passage. The passage lies facing the setting sun, which shines
to illuminate the central burial chamber on midsummer’s day.
The Ernaldans use this burial chamber for their sacred rites.
Here they are under the earth, within the bosom of the mother.
Grave Hill is the most sacred part of the clan tula. The clan would
sacrifice much to prevent outsiders from profaning it.

GREEN MEADOWS
The richest of the Red Cow villages, Green Meadows is a Sarostiping
stronghold. Over winter, a disproportionate number of the clan’s
famous red cows can be found in the byres here. Their Earth
Season feasts, following the slaughter of those animals that cannot
be kept through Dark and Storm Season are lavish, riotous affairs
with guests from across the tribe. Green Meadows lies across a
wooden bridge from Brannagh’s Farm a Wulfsland steadfast. The
Green Meadows folk have little contact with the folk of Brannagh’s
Farm, most of whom are settlers from Aggar. Nonetheless, both
villages can easily see each other and the day-to-day activity of the
fields. Jarkorl talks about cattle raids into Wulfsland, but Broddi
forbids it, fearing Jomes’ retribution.

GOODFARM
Standing on a low rise in the center of the clan lands, it has a
commanding view of the lands around the Heort Creek and out
to Red Cow. The thane’s longhouse is a fine building with huge
carved ram’s heads at either end.

HARSTAL’S LODGE
on the burners and appeased the ghosts, allowing the re-settlement
of the village some eleven-years ago.

FAR SHIELINGS
This village is near to the largest Blueberry clan village Fordstone.
The young men and women of Far Shielings often sneak down
to Fordstone in the summer months to flirt and laugh. Red Cow
youngsters are a common sight in Fordstone and provided they
keep out of trouble, welcome.

GRAVE HILL
The largest of the barrow mounds at 150 feet high and 600 feet
across, this hill is sacred to Orlanth and the last resting place of

30

Located where the Red Cow to Dangerford Road crosses the
Danda Creek, there is a wooden bridge across the Danda here.
Harstal’s Lodge lies on the east bank of the Danda Creek, and
Dangmarham, a Dolutha village, lies on the west bank.

HEORT CREEK
The confluence of the Jarol River which drains the Wolf and
Two-Pine Ridges, and the Torkan River which flows from the
Still Lake in Torkan Vale, meet at Dinosaur Hill give rise to the
Heort Creek. The Heort Creek is also known as the Wandle, for
its nymph. She is a lover of Krikans, the spirit of the Creek River.
The local anglers respect Wandle and fish here at her sufferance.
She appears as a blue-skinned woman with long flowing hair.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

The creatures of the river are hers to command, and no one fishes
here without her consent. In return for allowing humans to fish
her river, she demands that they defend her against pollution or
attack. Many of the clan’s fishers are enamored of Wandle and
they would willingly come to her aid.

HIGHSTEAD
Lying to the south Highstead is on the low hills that begin to
climb towards Two-Pine Ridge. It is higher than anywhere else
outside the Barrow Mounds is and has commanding views but is
the village most often attacked by the Two-Pine, particularly in
their Bloody Sword Tribute raids.

JAROLAR TRAIL/OLD SAINT’S ROAD
This trail runs from Red Cow up to Jarolar Keep. Beyond Jarolar
Keep, this becomes the Old Saint’s Road and it leads on to Battle
Valley and Lorthing Vale.

JONSTOWN TRAIL
The trail runs from where ‘the Red Cow Trail meets the Finger, passing
the Bag, past Fordstone, through Greenhaft and on to Jonstown.’

LIGHTNING LODGE
This village and Temple Hill are the only Red Cow villages in the
Barrow Mounds. The chief priest of Orlanth used to dwell here,
and tend the Orlanth shrine at Grave Hill. After the Empire banned
Orlanth worship, Jomes sent soldiers to raze Lightning Lodge to the
ground and arrest the chief priest Rangard Blacktooth. The soldiers
captured Rangard who died in captivity, but his assistant Ashart
Dusk-Eater escaped. The soldiers stole the sacred cattle and sheep
that grazed these hills and sacrificed them to the Red Goddess. Some
of the clan’s red-turners even cut the sacred earth here with the plow.

LONG MARSH
The marsh lies along the Heort Creek about halfway between Red
Cow and Wandle Bog. Unlike Wandle Bog, Long Marsh is not
sacred, but of little use for grazing, except for some of the special
breeds of sheep kept by the Kerenelli. Located in a sump, Long
Marsh is shallow fresh water covered in grasses, rushes, reeds, and
sedges. The Sardaling anglers hunt for crayfish and otters here.
White-tailed deer also live in the marsh.

OXLODGE
This settlement on Danda Creek is connected to Kostardosham,
a Dolutha village, by a wooden bridge. Kostardosham is larger
than Oxlodge, and Oxlodge seems more like an outlying part of
Kostardosham than an isolated stead. The locals join in with village
activities and celebrations in Kostardosham, and to all intents and
purposes are part of that community. However, the conflict between
the Dolutha and the Red Cow means that Oxlodge can become
the front line in times of difficulty, and friendships between the
villages can turn to hate overnight.

RED COW TRAIL
Running from the King’s Road, near Dangerford, out to Red
Cow Fort and beyond to Stonegate, this is a busy track, good for
carts and wagons. It brings trade to the Red Cow from the busy

Boldhome to Alda-Chur trade route. The Red Cow clan maintains
the road and their thanes patrol it, escorting guests to Red Cow
Fort for audience with the chieftain.

SARDALHAM
South of the Long Marsh, along the banks of the Heort Creek,
Sardalham is homestead to the clan’s fishers who make their
living mainly from the river and the nearby marsh. Most fish
in coracles, though some wade through the nearby marsh (one
or two have perfected stilt walking). They draw the boats up
along the shoreline here and there are smoking rooms for fish
along the banks.
One of the elders here is Nisk Wood-Turner who was once the
clan’s carpenter. He knows the secret of carving ‘living wood,’
the doorposts, chairs, and hall-pillars he carved have animated
faces able to speak simple sentences. Nisk mocks his kinsmen’s
conversion to the Moon, as do many of his carvings, unsettling
those who live here.
Sardalham lies across the Heort Creek from Areneham, a
Wulfsland steadfast. A ford connects the two villages and there
is frequent contact to such an extent that the populations have
merged. Many Wulfsland settlers now call Sardalham home. The
Sardalings have turned to the Moon and the folk of Areneham
are welcoming to their new ‘brothers and sisters.’ Leaders of both
communities talk about cementing the relationship with marriages
between their sons and daughters.

STAGLAND SOUR
This is a spirit place, where Kolat practitioners gather to worship
the Creek and its tributaries. The Sardaling bloodline organizes
many of these ceremonies. As a sacred space, Stagland Sour is
considered part of the clan tula, though shamans of Kolat are
allowed here, even if they are not from the clan.

SAROSTIPSTEAD
This stead lies at the confluence of the Danda Creek and the Burnt
River where a good ford allows both rivers to be crossed. The
Blueberry village of Jonriking lies on the far side of the Danda.
There are many marriages between the two villages and in-laws
regularly pass back and forth visiting daughters and grandchildren.
The people here are proud of their heritage. Sarostip Breaker-OfMen founded this village and the bloodline bearing his name.

SEVENOAKS
Lying northwest of Brightwater and Eoric’s Stead, it is relatively
poor. Sevenoaks is the ‘misfit house’ or ‘trouble stead’ where the
quarrelsome, lazy, bungled and the botched of the clan seem to
gravitate to cause trouble. It is a village of half-carls and cottars,
a village of pigs and sheep with few cows.

STANDING STONES
These are groups of megaliths carved with stone faces. The faces
represent Orlanth and the Thunder Brothers. Most are 15-20’
high. The stones lie amidst the Barrow Mounds and everyone says
that the Orgorvaltes put them here to mark their burial ground.
They are a place of sacrifice and ritual. During storms, lightning
often strikes the stones.

The Red Cow

31

TEMPLE HILL
This and Lightning Lodge are the only two farmsteads in the
sacred Barrow Mounds. Templehill is home to the chief priestess
of Ernalda. The earth here is sacred, and no man may walk upon
its sacred soils save when plowing and at harvest; at those times
the women weep for the violence done to the earth. The herds
of Red Cows that graze here are sacred to Uralda. The Uralda
shrine is near to Templehill and the sacred cows grow fat on
the local bounty.

TORMAKT’S FARM
The ancestral village of the Tormakting; the current buildings lie
close to the old hall of Tormakt Stouthearted. A rich village in
the heart of the clan lands, Tormakt’s village has contributed to
Tormakting dominance within the clan.

URALDAHOF
This village is renowned for its fine butter and cheese. The stead
wives churn the milk from cows and sheep to make strongly salted
butter from sour cream, soft cream and curds. The clan rarely
drinks full milk; they boil it or serve it as buttermilk.

WANDLE BOG
This sphagnum bog along the Heort Creek is sacred to Engizi
the Skyriver Titan. It forms part of the clan’s sacred space, its
tula. A place of sucking peat and quicksand, the sacred paths
through the bog are treacherous, made more so by the constant
swirling mist. The initiated do not share the trackways with those
who do not follow Heler or Engizi. Those traveling here must
sacrifice at the threshold when crossing into the marsh. Fine
swords, elaborate broaches, silver torcs, and golden armbands
lie beneath the water, granting safe passage. Heler would curse
any who stole his tribute, taking their fertility from them until
they atoned.

WATERSTONE
Two circular stone baths, fed by pipes, allow bathing in the
hot-water springs nearby. Waterstone lies across the Danda
Creek from the Blueberry village of Renvardstead at an easy
ford, and Blueberry clan-folk frequently cross the ford to use
the hot springs. Relationships between the two clans are warm
and friendly. There are frequent marriages between members
of the two villages.

IMPORTANT PEOPLE OF
THE RED COW
These are the movers and shakers of the Red Cow, the people
‘everyone knows.’ Feel free to read the descriptions here to the
players when they interact with these people. The players are
part of a community and would certainly know these facts about
their kinfolk.

32

THE INNER RING
Broddi Strong-Kin has been chieftain of the Red Cow since
Starbrow’s Rebellion.
Broddi has built his political strength through the web of cattle
loans and gifts that he has made, which bind much of the clan
to him in the moot. Broddi wants peace and prosperity for the
clan and it has been his misfortune to lead in eventful times. The
young men hunger for the plunder and wealth they could win by
raiding the Dinacoli across the border.
The Inner Ring is Broddi’s council of advisors. Members of
the ring carry items of the clan regalia that mark their authority.
Farandar Orendalsson represents the farmers but does not
have the support of all of them. Many claim he is too interested in
supporting the rebellion to concentrate on local affairs. Farandar
has kept his position with loans and gifts, but Jarkorl SnowWhiskers has many supporters who say the position should be
his. Kullina helps keep Farandar in power, because of his support
for the rebel cause.
The high priestess of Ernalda, Darna Longcoat specializes in
aiding those in need, who cannot refuse to become indebted her.
She has woven a net of loans, gifts, and alliances to secure her
position. Because these people could not refuse her gifts, or offer
one in return, they are all obligated. She has many enemies, but
few can act against her. Darna believes that the Red Cow should
use the strength of the Cinsina to dominate their neighbors, but
is far more interested in power for its own sake than any ideology.
Darna Longcoat dislikes Kullina the Fat because she is a Culbrea
woman, from the Blueberry, and not from an ‘old Cinsina’ clan
such as the Underwillow or Frithan.
The clan loves the Esra priestess Kullina the Fat because
she is generous, kind, and cheerful. Kullina has no love for the
Empire. She empathizes with the struggle of the Daughters of
Mabodh to drive Jomes Hostralos from Stagland. Kullina would
support Farandar as chieftain if he promised Red Cow support
for the Daughters.
Borngold Many-Brothers is a fierce enemy of the Telmori
and friend to Queen Ivartha. He has ambitions to be chieftain of
the clan. His bloodline would support him, as might the Queen.
Frekor Deep-Woods is the clan’s master hunter and always
reminds the clan of the Telmori threat. His hunters quarrel with
the werewolves in Stagland and Torkan’s Vale. He is the strongest
voice in the clan against conflict with Jomes, for fear of weakening
the ‘alliance against the wolves.’

ORLANTH THE CHIEFTAIN:
BRODDI STRONG-KIN gWl
Broddi is chieftain of the Red Cow, noted for his generosity
and wealth. Once a renowned cattle raider, Broddi stole his
wealth from the neighbors. Broddi has used that wealth for
political power. Generous with gifts he can demand the support
of many men.
Broddi was the year-husband of Entarios the Supporter in his
youth. He has one son by this dalliance, Bardrinor the Good, a
wealthy Jonstown cattle merchant (see Sartar Companion, page
13). Broddi has ambitions for this son to return to the clan and
enter into politics. Because of his earlier marriage, Broddi can call

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

THE INNER RING
From left to right: Broddi Strong-Kin, Darna Longcoat, Salissa Three-Husbands,
Kullina the Fat, Farandar Orendalsdon, Borngold Many-Brothers, Frekor Deep-Woods

on the support of the Greenstone Temple. His eldest by Emer
Bridge-Water is Verlain Never-Doubt, a Storm Voice of Orlanth
serving on the Cinsina ring. Broddi is immensely proud of him
and hearkens to his every word — but Verlain has no political
ambitions. Verlain and Bardrinor have so eclipsed his youngest
son Jaraltyr the Dreamer, that Broddi shows him little love.
Broddi is a Storm Voice of Orlanth, and the priest of Ulanin
the Rider for the Red Cow. As a cattle raider and cattleman, he
is well suited to that role, and often leads the clan on the Stealing
of the Giant’s Cows.
Broddi is a man of compromise. When the Empire banned
Orlanth, Broddi hid his worship behind Barntar. He has sought
the path of peace with his neighbors, diffusing feuds with generous wergild payments, appeasing the missionaries and soldiers in
the fort, and reining in the warlike ambitions of the young men.
When Jaranil the Thunder calls for raids against the Culbrea and
Dinacoli, Broddi opposes him.
The irony of the old cattle raider forbidding the young men
the same chances he had is not lost on the clan. Broddi believes
his leadership has saved the clan from the fate of the Firebull clan
of the Sambari who were decimated for opposing the Empire.
He believes that leadership remains necessary to steer the clan
through the Hero Wars and sees himself as a selfless man who has
sacrificed his own wealth for his kin’s survival. His detractors see
him as a frightened old man denying the young the opportunities
he once had. Broddi is bitter that they see him as cowardly when
he feels he has no other choices.
His wife Emer Bridge-Water has borne him two sons and two
daughters.

Broddi Strong-Kin gWl
Bloodline: Sarostiping
Faction: The Eye of the Hurricane
Age: 52
Keywords: Chieftain
Magic: Initiate of Barntar g, Initiate of Orlanth Rex W
Look: Short white beard; golden torc; dull, tired eyes

ERNALDA THE EARTH:
DARNA LONGCOAT elW
Despite advancing years, Darna Longcoat is still a beautiful
woman. She is tall and people call her “Longcoat” for her most
treasured attire.
Darna has gained influence with her generosity. She is always
ready to lend a helping hand when people fall on hard times.
Her critics suggest that she exploits the misfortune of others.
Darna thrives by creating a network of debts and obligations
that she can call on. Her acts of ‘generosity’ buy political support
and power. Her opponents describe her as “the weaver” and
say she really pulls the strings in the clan. It is certain that she
has the command of enough debts and favors to be a decisive
force in deciding who will become the next chieftain of the
Red Cow clan after Broddi. She is known to favor Kangharl
Black-Brow.
Griselda Gray-Tresses has never forgiven her for engineering
her downfall. When the adultery of Orsta Trades-With-Trolls and
Kalf Triplet-Born was revealed, Darna opposed the marriage and

The Red Cow

33

forced Griselda to resign for supporting it, and bringing a curse
upon the clan. She raised Orsta’s daughter, Saroosa Dark-Wyrd,
and taught her to despise her mother’s weakness.
Her many enemies can never persuade Broddi that anything
Darna has done is wrong. Darna can always explain her actions
as generous and caring.
Many genuinely remain devoted to her because of her generosity in their time of need. Kangharl Black-Brow loves her,
despite the age gap and begs her to divorce her husband Kenstran
Sword-Tongue.
Darna dislikes Kullina the Fat and the women of the Culbrea
clans for ‘stealing’ the opportunities of the Red Cow from her kin.
Darna Longcoat elW
Bloodline: Bolthoring nee Frithan
Faction: The Conquering Storm
Age: 50
Keywords: Priestess
Magic: Devotee of Ernalda e
Look: Long gray hair; long silk-lined coat;
faded beauty; gold necklace

URALDA THE COW:
SALISSA THREE-HUSBANDS exb
Salissa Three-husbands is proud, high-spirited, and beautiful.
Exceptionally skillful with her hands, she is one of the finest
loom workers in the clan. Her cloth makes the priestesses’ sacred
clothing and the raiment that the goddess is clothed in each year.
Salissa resents Darna Longcoat and believes that she should be
priestess of Ernalda for the clan instead. However, she cannot act
because she owes her position to Darna and is obligated to her.
Unfortunately for Salissa’s ambitions, she is not popular
with everyone. She divorced her first husband Orlarn Friendof-Heroes when she fell for the second, Orlgandus the White.
The Osmannings have never forgiven her that slight. Orlgandus
fell at Runegate, but Salissa remarried into the clan through her
new husband Vasrenkarl Many-Brothers. Many Bolthorings
said she was too quick to wed again. Darna Longcoat spoke up
for her at every turn and obtained her the position as Uralda
priestess on the ring.
Though she tows Darna’s line politically, her true beliefs are
close to Broddi’s own.
She has nine sons by her husbands, five grown to manhood.
Salissa is an Earth Witch, a member of the Serdrodosa the Earth
Witch tradition. She knows the secret of speaking into rocks and
soil so that Ernalda will hear her, and how to find lost and hidden
objects in the earth. She attends ceremonies to the Earth Witch
at Six Sisters, led by Granny Maralda, a wandering shaman of the
Division Hills. She does not speak of this, but practices in secret,
often veiled, where her people need her. Griselda Gray-Tresses
knows her secret.

34

Salissa Three-Husbands exb
Bloodline: Sarostiping nee Underwillow
Faction: The Conquering Storm
Age: 44
Keywords: Priestess
Magic: Devotee of Ernalda x
Serdrodosa the Earth Witch Spirit Society b
Look: Long gray hair; long silk-lined coat;
faded beauty; gold necklace

ESRA THE BARLEY MOTHER:
KULLINA THE FAT exW
Kullina the Fat is the priestess of Esra the Barley Mother, a generous and kind woman.
Her cheerful disposition has won her many friends and Kullina
seeks to further her influence by those friendships.
Kullina has no love for the Empire and sympathizes with the
struggle of the Daughters of Mabodh — who want help in driving
Jomes from Wulfsland, so they can reclaim their birthright.
Darna Longcoat’s dislikes Kullina’s Culbrea clan birth and
worries that her loyalty is not to the Cinsina. However, Kullina
opposes the reunification of the Culbrea. She does not trust King
Ranulf Turn-Tail.
Kullina would support Farandar to take Broddi’s place on the
ring — knowing that he would commit the Red Cow to aiding
the rebellion.
Kullina the Fat exW
Bloodline: Tormakting nee Blueberry
Faction: Free Sartar
Age: 32
Keywords: Priestess
Magic: Devotee of Ernalda — Esra the Barley Mother
sub-cult x
Look: Always eating something; big smile;
copper bangles; plump

BARNTAR:
FARANDAR ORENDALSSON gsW
Youngest of three sons of Korlinalda the Holy, Farandar Orendalsson
is the wealthiest farmer of the Osmanning bloodline.
He gained his wealth by leading his kin to reclaim Eoric’s
Stead from the ghosts of the blood feud that haunted it. The
clan still tells stories of the many trials the Osmanning took
to bring peace to the unquiet spirits of the village before they
could settle there.
Farandar’s good looks and lively manner make him popular
with the women of the clan. He often gains the support of the
farmers through charming their wives.
Farandar’s ambition has soured his relationship with Broddi.
Farandar does not feel Broddi has shown sufficient support for

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

THE RIVALS
Broddi has steered the clan safely through the Lunar
Occupation since Valenstor paid the price of supporting
Starbrow’s Rebellion and went into exile. He has studiously
avoided trouble, preserving the clan’s Resources.
Broddi will be challenged for the leadership. In the campaign outlined in Volume Two that challenge comes in 1623
following the events of the Great Winter. In your game, it
might come earlier.
However it happens, it is worth foreshadowing the Rivals
who will compete for the chieftaincy of the Red Cow. These
men are noted ‘ring-givers’ even now, generous thanes
who attract others to their service and are powerful patrons
and unforgiving enemies. Bringing them to the players’
attention as events proceed makes their standing for election flow better in the story. Of course, one of the players
may themselves hope to be chieftain one day and should
emulate the generous patronage of these men.

the rebellion. He supports the Daughters of Mabodh and their
quest to regain their birthright.
Farandar has two children by his wife Kareena Well-Fated.

KANGHARL BLACK-BROW
The ‘big man’ of the Tormakting bloodline and most likely
to take over from Lhankpentos when he retires or dies. He
is a man of action who hates procrastinators and despises
the Dinacoli and Culbrea tribes. PCs who want to triumph
over the neighbors will gravitate towards him.

FARANDAR ORENDALSSON
The hero who exorcised the ghosts of Eoric’s Stead, and a
noted heroquester. He is strong supporter of the rebellion,
and the Free Sartar faction clusters around him. PCs who
want to support the rebellion will gravitate towards him.

BORNGOLD MANY-BROTHERS
Enemy of the Telmori, he has the ear of Queen Ivartha. He
is also considered a holy man by the rain loving Red Cow.
PCs who hate the Telmori will gravitate towards him.

Borngold Many-Brothers wsW
Bloodline: Kerenelling
Faction: The Wolfskinners
Age: 30

Farandar Orendalsson gsW
Bloodline: Osmanning

Keywords: Thane

Faction: Free Sartar

Magic: Initiate of Heler w

Age: 37

Look: Croaky voice; shepherd’s crook; slate-blue skin;
white hair; whorls of tattoos across face

Keywords: Farmer
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth g
Look: Blue eyes; goatee beard; good sense of humor;
red-hair; scratches his goatee while thinking

VORIOF THE SHEPHERD:
BORNGOLD MANY-BROTHERS wsW
Borngold Many-Brothers’ appearance is striking. He has white
hair and slate-blue skin. A thane, noted for leading raids through
Telmori country into Aranwyth lands, Borngold has grown rich.
A follower of Heler, Borngold’s lands have fine herds of indigo
sheep instead of cattle. A magical cloud ram has sired many of
Borngold’s flock.
Borngold sees the Red Cow clan as a flock and he as the
shepherd, guarding them from danger, ensuring they thrive and
prosper. His paternalistic attitude is meant kindly — his own
bloodline accepts it — but some see it as patronizing.
He hates the Telmori as sheep-killers and his iron tipped spear
has impaled many Telmori. He has fought alongside Jomes and
Queen Ivartha; he considers both of them friends. He has no desire
to force Jomes from Wulfsland, seeing him as an ally against the
Telmori, not as a follower of the hated Red Moon.

ODAYLA:
FREKOR DEEP-WOODS gBC
Frekor is a stereotypical ‘mountain man.’ He is more at home
sleeping on the moss or around the campfire in the wilds than
on the sleeping banks or mead benches of the hall.
Frekor dislikes politics despite his position on the ring. He
believes in straight talking, in honor, and taking pride in yourself
and your achievements. He has contempt for those who sully their
honor, or act without pride. He dislikes those who display a sense
of entitlement to the clan’s aid, believing that the clan should help
those who help themselves.
There is little Frekor does not know of woodcraft. His stalking
and tracking abilities are legendary in the clan and nearly everyone
can tell a ‘Frekor story’ about the wily old hunter. He knows the
wilds of the clan lands, the ways of Stagland, and the paths of
Torkan’s Vale.
Frekor is a noted ‘werewolf-fighter.’ He often disappears into
Stagland to hunt Telmori, with only his alynxes for company and
the Shadow Bow for killing.
Frekor has an iron spear, iron long knife, and a set of iron arrows
that he earned from the Cold Hard Iron Tribute. He fulfilled the
tribute by leading dwarves from Dwarf Run to track dinosaurs
in the Bush Range which the dwarves were able to control. Since

The Red Cow

35

then Frekor has met with dwarves on other occasions but remains
tight-lipped about what transactions occur.
Frekor Deep-Woods gBC
Bloodline: Sarostiping

woman and lies with other men, and so his sacredness is obvious.
The Red Cow clan with their many Heler worshippers accepts
such behavior as natural for one who follows the shifting god
of rain. Aethelric is a noted wolf-fighter who hates the Telmori.

HOUSECARL:
JARANIL THE THUNDER gsW

Faction: The Wolfskinners
Age: 39
Keywords: Hunter
Magic: Devotee of Odayla C
Look: Buckskin clothing; long dark hair; quiet and
reserved, often sitting alone even at a feast; quiver of
arrows; scarred face

THE HOUSECARLS
The Housecarls are the chieftain’s personal bodyguard. Many are
drawn from the thanes.
Jaranil the Thunder leads the bodyguard. Ortossi Ketilsson,
who is experienced beyond his years, is notorious for the brutal
way he pursued blood vengeance against the Split Waters clan of
the Maboder. Jarstak Bristle-Beard, one of the longest serving
thanes, is his right hand man. The mothers still hold Jarstak to
be an example of the dangers of forced maturity that Orlanth’s
Rattle brings. However, the other Rattle-Born thane is Kernalda
Other-Ways, who brings joy and laughter to the Housecarls.
Aethelric the Girl is obviously holy, he dresses and behaves as a

Tall and strong, Jaranil the Thunder is the leader of the chieftain’s
housecarls. Jaranil has held this post for over ten years and become
the experienced “old man” whom the chieftain and ring trust
implicitly. When Jaranil speaks on matters of war folk fall silent,
or are taken aside by thanes and told to “show some respect.”
Jaranil rarely argues with dissenters, preferring to simply ignore
them, confidant in his own position.
Jaranil is frustrated with Broddi’s continual avoidance of conflict. He fears that the Red Cow will be seen as weak, which might
attract a perfect storm of all their enemies — Emerald Sword,
Two-Pine and Telmori. He is convinced that giving the occasional
“bloody nose” is necessary to teach the neighbors a lesson. Jaranil
is likely to sponsor a raid if the chieftain ignores the feelings of the
young men. Jaranil supports Kangharl’s ambitions and has given
considerable credibility to him because of that support. Farandar
remains jealous of that and seeks Jaranil for his own cause.
A Wind Lord of Orlanth, Jaranil protects and serves the clan’s
earth priestesses, and leads expeditions beyond the clan’s boundaries. Jaranil’s wife, Orvane Amber-Eyed, divorced him when he
became a Wind Lord, unable to bear his infidelity, despite the
god’s blessing it as sacred. She returned to the Underwillow, but
has taken no husband since. Jaranil still pines for her.

THE HOUSECARLS
From left to right: Jaranil the Thunder, Kernalda Other-Ways, Ortossi Ketilsson, Jarstak Bristle-Beard, Aethelric the Girl

36

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

Kernalda Other-Ways wst
Bloodline: Tormakting
Faction: The Conquering Storm
Age: 42
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Devotee of Orlanth s
Look: Scarred, large nose,
receding hairline

HOUSECARL:
KERNALDA OTHER-WAYS wst
Unpredictable Kernalda has a stormy temperament.
About the only thing you can predict about her
reaction is that it will be passionate. Kernalda does
nothing in a perfunctory way. She does not suffer
fools gladly. Nevertheless, she has as many lovers
as enemies.
Kernalda’s mother gave her Orlanth’s Rattle to
play with in the cradle. The elders frowned on the
rattle being given to a girl, but she quickly grew into
a tomboy who could hold her own with the boys,
was ready with her fists, and could win a game of
kick-the-ball.
Kernalda is a romantic who has fought with the
Rebellion and hates the Empire. She is friends with
Ortossi, but dislikes his brutality. For Kernalda war
is a contest, not killing.
Kernalda believes that fear of the Empire has
‘unmanned’ Broddi, believing Broddi should allow
the young men to raid and join the war against the
Empire. ‘Trouble helps us to grow’ she is fond of
saying.
She supports the ambitions of Borngold ManyBrothers to the chieftaincy. She has no desire for
the role herself.
Kernalda Other-Ways wst
Bloodline: Kerenelling
Faction: Free Sartar
Age: 37
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Initiate of Heler s
Look: Fiery temper; full sleeve tattoos
on arms; long white hair in a pigtail;
slate complexion; touches people when
in conversation

HOUSECARL:
ORTOSSI KETILSSON gst

Waters clan of the Maboder led to his exile from the
Red Cow. He shared that exile with Queen Ivartha
as part of her ill-fated expedition into Torkan’s Vale.
The Telmori annihilation of the Maboder ended
that exile.
A renowned warrior he can run without tiring
even when wearing armor. He carries a dragon-bone
hilted sword, Wind-Slicer, which can fight alone.
He knows Brekun’s Shield Fight feat.
Ortossi is the foster son of Aska Almond-Eyed
and Farandar Orendalsson’s cousin. He has rebelled
against Broddi’s peaceful, conflict damping, reasoned
approach. He tackles problems head on without
thought or consideration. Ortossi is a huge disappointment to Aska. Her dissatisfaction only drives
him to shut his ears to her pleading.
Ortossi remains staunchly loyal to his cousin
Queen Ivartha and much of his opposition to the
wolfmen is because of his unquestioning loyalty
to her.
Ortossi Ketilsson gst
Bloodline: Osmanning
Faction: The Wolfskinners
Age: 28
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth g
Look: Barely smiles; long dark hair; no
sense of humor; sword scar from chin to
right eye

HOUSECARL:
JARSTAK BRISTLE-BEARD gtj

BREKUN’S
SHIELD FIGHT
Brekun was armed with
a noble spear and a
sword capable of cutting
unhanded, leaping
and singing. Most of
all he had his shields:
razor-edged shield, spear
shield, bound shield,
and flight shield. He
fought dawn to dusk.
Brekun blocked eight
arrows and javelins
with the Widow’s Howl
and sent them back
against their senders.
Bronze edges could not
cut him and his shield
beat off spear thrusts.
He rained blows upon
sword, shield and helm.
With the rim shield, he
cut Melifas’ throat.
“There stands Brekun,
among red steam
rising hot from the
pools dripping human
blood. He will not stop
until the gore sea is
overflowing. He will
not stand down until
tomorrow’s cock is done.”

Orlanth’s Rattle quickened Jarstak. Strong, tempestuous, and quick like lightning he has grown to
manhood while still but a boy.
His black moods and tantrums, born from
immaturity, have offended many of the clan. His
lack of maturity makes him jealous and frightened,
and he reacts by bullying the carls and cottars. His
contempt for women has earned him the enmity
of the Women’s Circle and he has never married.
Broddi Strong-Kin thinks he is a thug. Kangharl
Black-Brow regards him as useful.
Jarstak holds particular contempt for the thanes
for he cannot see why he is not one himself. He rails
against the unfairness and thinks of Umath who
tore his place in the world with the cry ‘violence is
always an option.’ Darna Longcoat listens, and feeds
his anger and resentment, sharpening him until the
time comes to ask him to cut.

A deadly warrior whose brutality is legend, Ortossi’s
actions as a youth during a blood feud with the Split

The Red Cow

37

Ortossi Ketilsson gst
Bloodline: Tormakting
Faction: The Conquering Storm
Age: 26
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth g
Look: White hair; long beard; slate-blue skin; throws
tantrums when he doesn’t get his own way

HOUSECARL:
AETHELRIC THE GIRL wlt
Aethelric is a Helering warrior and cross-dresser. Those around
him account for his behavior by acknowledging that he has the
Water Rune in his nature.
Aethelric is a dreamer, seeing things in standing water and
preferring solitude. Since his mother’s death he is friendly with
Voranga Many-Sorrows. They are both considered ‘odd’ but ‘holy’
by most of the clan.
Aethelric earned his place amongst the housecarls as a renowned
Telmori fighter. He often makes expeditions into the Stagland to
kill wolfmen on Wildday. He has a pact with Yeerenis the Cloud
Ram to hunt wolves. Aethelric lures them with his White Cloud
Fleece then wields his father’s Wolf-Killing Spear. Queen Ivartha
admires his bravery.
His expeditions often take him near to Wulfsland steadfasts
where he is an unusual but tolerated visitor. Jomes seems to approve
of him, and the two have hunted Telmori together, and that is
enough for most of the settlers.
Aethelric is uncomfortable among the other housecarls, rarely
taking part in their boisterous games. Jaranil tries to speak to
him about his isolation from the group but Aethelric shows little
concern. Aethelric dislikes Jarstak Bristle-Beard as a bully, but is
friendly with Kernalda Other-Ways.
Aethelric the Girl wlt
Bloodline: Kerenelling
Faction: The Wolfskinners
Age: 29
Keywords: Mercenary
Magic: Initiate of Heler w
Look: Effeminate; long dark hair; wears women’s
clothing

THE PRIESTS
The Red Cow clan has three important shrines on the clan lands.
The priests of these shrines are the spiritual authority of the clan.
The Empire has closed the shrine to Orlanth at Grave Hill.
The priests conduct what worship they can in secret. Regular
Lunar patrols from Red Cow Fort try to prevent access to Grave
Hill throughout the year. Additionally, the garrison commander,

38

Phargentes Grinning-Scar, focuses on preventing access to other
tribal temples in the area, such as Good Rain Hill over Grave Hill.
The garrison rarely interferes with Holy Days themselves,
when the defenders are magically powerful. They focus instead
on trying to arrest and crucify the priesthood. For this reason, the
ring and god-talkers hide their worship of Orlanth behind that
of Barntar — claiming that they no longer follow Orlanth. The
Lunars understand this is often lip service but work to convert
future generations by forcing Orlanth worship into hiding.
The Orlanthi priests have abandoned Lightning Lodge village
and lie low, always fearful of betrayal by traitors and turncoats.
Ashart Dusk-Eater lives in hiding at loyal hearths across the clan
lands. Sometimes bounty hunters come close to finding him and
he has to flee. Then he hides in cattle byres, haylofts or in the
ruins on the clan lands. Supporters bring him food and supplies.
This is dangerous. Phargentes has promised to crucify anyone
harboring Ashart.
Broddi Strong-Kin is able to continue worship under the guise
of Ulanin the Rider — the Empire understands this is suspect,
but also knows the economic prosperity of the clan depends on
the Stealing of the Giant’s Cows and tolerates the worship of this
cultural hero, for now.
Phargentes respects the Ernaldan ceremonies and Darna
Longcoat keeps the Ernalda shrine at Grave Hill open. The clan
exploits this to worship Orlanth at the shared rites.
The clan has hidden its most sacred Orlanthi treasures, such
as the Meteor Spear, from the occupying forces and turncoats.

TEMPLES
The Empire has banned worship of Orlanth, and patrols from
Red Cow Fort try to prevent Grave Hill from being used for
worship. Despite the Empire’s ban on the worship of Orlanth,
Ashart Dusk-Eater tries to lead worship whenever he can. In
addition to their local shrines, the Red Cow used to join the
Cinsina tribe for worship. The coordinated effort of the tribe
produced greater magical effect than the clans could alone.
Ashart tries to continue this with pilgrimages to Orlanth’s Hill
for Thunder Day, and Good Rain Hill for Great Rain Day. This
is dangerous because those who attend risk fines or crucifixion.
Still Ashart expects many people to come from nearby clans
and tribes join them.
Ernalda worship has few such restrictions. Darna Longcoat
leads worship at Grave Hill and the Women’s Circle continues
to organize pilgrimages to Greenstone Temple in Ormthane Vale
for Shroud Day.
The clan maintains a shrine to Ulanin the Rider in Red Cow
Fort. The shrine honors Ulanin as an ancestor, but more for
the gift of Red Cows to the clan. Ulanin is also recognized as a
giant-slayer here, for this was where he overcame Bergilmer. The
Empire allows worship of Ulanin to continue, aware that the
hero is the economic lifeblood of the clan. Broddi Strong-Kin
leads the clan’s worship of Ulanin, and through that the collateral
worship of Orlanth. For many who dare not risk worshipping
with Ashart, Broddi’s ceremonies are the only contact they get
of their god.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

THE ORLANTH SHRINE CHIEF PRIEST:
ASHART DUSK-EATER gsW
Good-tempered, generous, and warm-hearted Ashart is the chief priest
of Orlanth in the clan. The worship of Orlanth is banned, and with
Lunar soldiers garrisoned at Red Cow Fort Ashart lives in hiding.
He has spent years of moving from village-to-village, evading
the Lunar Army. This has left Ashart with good friends among
many of the clan’s families. At any moment, he may need to
run from the hospitality of one village to find safety in another.
Many have lied to keep his presence in a hayloft, cattle byre, or
root cellar secret.
Sometimes Lunar sympathizers within the clan betray him
to the authorities. Many a dawn raid has turned into a narrow
escape cross-country. Ashart can never be sure who has
betrayed him; however he has a score to settle with the
Moon Winds one day.
Ashart’s wife Hinalda the Enduring
has been by his side throughout the
years in hiding. His is intensely loyal to
her as a result. They have no children,
sacrificing domestic life for the need to
keep moving.
Gringle Harvest–King and his wife Orsta
Trades-With-Trolls have provided special help
to Ashart, risking much to give him somewhere
he could regularly call a ‘home.’ Ashart will never
forget their kindness. Enerin Bristle-Beard is a close
friend who always gave him a fast horse when he
needed it. The two still sit together on Enerin’s porch
in quiet moments, admiring Enerin’s fine horses.
As well as being a Storm Voice, Ashart is Wind
Lord of Orlanth — a defender of the Earth and
protector against Chaos. He has a friendly rivalry
with Jaranil the Thunder, which often expresses itself
as competitive offers of help to the earth priestess of
the Women’s Circle.
Ashart Dusk-Eater gsW
Bloodline: Tormakting
Faction: Free Sartar
Age: 39
Keywords: Priest
Magic: Devotee of Orlanth s
Look: Cheery smile; fat belly; thinning brown hair;
short beard, conical hat

THE ERNALDA SHRINE
In accordance to tradition Darna Longcoat is the chief priestess
of the Ernalda shrine as well as holding the Ernalda position on
the ring.

THE ULANIN SHRINE
Within the Red Cow, the chieftain always holds the position of
Priest of Ulanin. This reflects the importance of cattle to the Red

Cow; a chieftain must prove his worth as a cattleman, and as a
raider. Any candidate for the chieftaincy should have undertaken
the Stealing of the Giant’s Cows. As the Lunar Empire allows worship
of Ulanin — as the hero of the quest gives the clan its red cows,
and thus its wealth — it also means the chieftain through collateral
worship of Orlanth provides many men in the clan with the main
worship ceremonies where they can reach their god.

THE HEADMEN
The headmen are the leaders of the Red Cow bloodlines. They
are thanes, and sit upon the outer ring.
The Tormakting headman, Lhankpentos the
Blind is the wisdom behind Broddi’s chieftaincy.
His support for Broddi keeps the chieftain secure,
despite protests at his isolationism. Lhankpentos
is an old man now and will die soon. His death
will likely shake up Red Cow politics as his heir
apparent, Kangharl Black-Brow is no supporter
of Broddi.
Jarkorl Snow-Whiskers, the Sarostiping
headman, resents Broddi appointing Farandar
Orendalsson to the Barntar position on the
ring. He accuses Farandar of more interest in
war with the Empire than in the lives of the
farmers and herders. He rails against Kullina the
Fat for supporting ‘her favorite’ instead of doing
what is best for the clan. As a representative of
the cattle herders, Jarkorl is a natural supporter
of the Eye of the Hurricane. For now he supports
Broddi as there are few alternatives.
The Osmanning headman Gringle HarvestKing is a strong supporter of Broddi, and speaks of
the guidance of the ‘old man’ in difficult years. He sees
the path for the Red Cow as one of peace, even with
old enemies like the Emerald Sword or Two-Pine. He
does however fear the wolfmen. Gringle does not believe
that the Telmori can be reasoned with. He might withdraw
support for Broddi’s isolationist position, if he believed it was
allowing the Telmori to prosper.
The Bolthoring headman Enerin Bristle-Beard supports the
Free Sartar faction. He is at the heart of the Rebellion in the Red
Cow. A confidant of Kernalda Other-Ways, Enerin’s bloodline aids
the guerrillas fighting the Empire. Enerin campaigns for the clan
to support Kallyr Starbrow. He calls on the clan to oust Jomes
and his settlers from Wulfsland. Kallyr, he tells the ring, has the
loyalty of the Telmori as a descendant of Sartar.
Enerin has no love for Tarkalus Bigger-Boat, the Sardaling
headman. Tarkalus and many of his bloodline are Moon Winds.
When anyone questions why he turned his back on Orlanth, Tarkalus
invokes the memory of the old chieftain Willem the Knowing,
who listened to the Lunar priestesses. His kin are fishers. They
always felt overlooked in a clan that prizes their red cattle above
all else. By converting to the Moon, Tarkalus won them the favor
of the Empire. They have grown prosperous on that patronage
and Tarkalus and the Empire are popular.

The Red Cow

39

TORMAKTING HEADMAN:
LHANKPENTOS THE BLIND gtW

BOLTHORING:
ENERIN BRISTLE-BEARD gWB

Lhankpentos is elderly with failing sight though in his youth he
was a red-handed raider who fought many battles with the Emerald
Sword clan of the Dinacoli and Split Waters clan of the Maboder.
He leads worship of Orlanth more openly than any other
god-talker exclaiming that he is an “old man now” and “how will
they punish me apart from hastening an old blind fool’s death?”
Despite his white beard and toothless grin, he is a canny leader
whose guile and cunning outwits his rivals. Lhankpentos’ political
shrewdness got Broddi elected. If Lhankpentos dies, the wisdom
behind Broddi’s leadership dies.
Lhankpentos lives with his sons Gringle Shield-Wall and Arlest
the Unmatched on a wealthy stead. They have a fine collection of
horses, and Lhankpentos is one of the best horse-fighting trainers
in the clan.

A wealthy farmer Enerin Bristle-Beard lives with his wife and
three sons and grandchildren in Bolthoringham by the Heort
Creek. His popularity among the Bolthoring led to his election
as their headman.
Enerin has a fine stable of horses, most traded from Dolutha
breeders. He is a rival to Lhankpentos the Blind for the title of
best horse-fighting trainer in the clan. He loves the sport and lives
for it. Losing a fight puts him in a bad mood for weeks (or until
the next fight). At those times, his temper is vicious.
Enerin is a supporter of the rebellion. Venharl Stormbrow and
Orstalor Spearlord are regular (but secret) visitors to his farm. He
leads his kinsmen to ambush Lunar officials and soldiers, despite
Broddi’s fear of retribution.
He despises the treacherous Moon Winds like Tarkalus BiggerBoat and Bolik Red-Turner.

Lhankpentos the Blind gtW
Enerin Bristle-Beard gWB

Bloodline: Tormakting
Faction: The Eye of the Hurricane

Bloodline: Bolthoring

Age: 66

Faction: Free Sartar

Keywords: Thane

Age: 51
Keywords: Thane

Magic: Initiate of Orlanth W
Look: Long white beard and hair; milky-white near
blind eyes; toothless

SAROSTIPING:
JARKORL SNOW-WHISKERS gyW
The clan respects Jarkorl because he is honest and guileless. He
despises politics and fancy words. He is a straight talker who
dislikes equivocators and liars.
Jarkorl’s popularity stems from his rise to wealth as a farmer
not a sell-sword or raider. The bloodline’s carls see him as one of
their own and trust him to speak for them on the ring.
Broddi Strong-Kin is a close cousin and Jarkorl supports Broddi
but is disappointed that he appointed Farandar Orendalsson to
the Barntar position on the ring, hoping for that role himself.
Jarkorl counsels Broddi that the farmers fear the Telmori most of
all and that defending the herds against the wolfmen is the job
of the Red Cow chieftain, not pursuing old feuds.
His wife Insterid the Bent has borne him three strong sons
and a daughter.
Jarkorl Snow-Whiskers gyW
Bloodline: Sarostiping
Faction: The Eye of the Hurricane
Age: 38
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth W
Look: Always tells the truth; bald; tall; long drooping
white mustache

40

Magic: Initiate of Orlanth g
Look: Bushy mustache but light, stubbly, beard; long
gray hair bound in a club; often walks around barechested; slack belly

SARDALING HEADMAN:
TARKALUS BIGGER-BOAT w5x
Tarkalus’ family has always been fishermen. They ply their trade
along the Creek and its tributaries, landing pike, roach, and
lampreys.
As headman for the Sardaling, he wears the magic Frog Mask,
permitting him to breathe underwater. His eight-man Turtle Boat
is the largest in the clan. His brother Kenstran Water-Flyer built
it and the two are inseparable on and off the water.
Tarkalus speaks for the fishermen of the clan, most of whom
belong to the Sardaling bloodline. They complain the ring does
not support them. They are right in this assertion — for the Red
Cow cattle are wealth and whilst a fish is a welcome change of
diet, few regard the fisherfolk as equals.
Tarkalus dislikes Broddi Strong-Kin. He believes him to be
the most prejudiced of all the Red Cow’s cattlemen. Broddi cares
little for what Tarkalus thinks, regarding the fisherfolk as little
better than stickpickers.
The prejudice and contempt of the rest of the clan made the
Sardaling fisherfolk ripe for conversion. The missionaries of the
Seven Mothers targeted them during their Occupation, because
they were so disaffected. Tarkalus converted because the missionaries promised a better life for the river folk. Things are better
under the Empire. The Lunars trade luxuries for the Sardaling
fish and many of his bloodline own amphorae of Pelorian wine
and Esrolian glassware.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

The people of Wulfsland are allies of the Sardalings and many
marriages have been contracted binding the two closer together.
Tarkalus Bigger-Boat w5x
Bloodline: Sardaling
Faction: The Moon Winds
Age: 46
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Initiate of the Seven Mothers (Danfive Xaron) 6,
Initiate of Engizi the Skyriver Titan w
Look: Mustache; distrusting of anyone but close
family; short-brown hair; skinny but well-muscled

KERENELLING HEADMAN:
BORNGOLD MANY-BROTHERS
The Kerenelling headman Borngold Many-Brothers (see page 35)
holds the position of Voriof on the inner ring as is traditional.

bungled and the botched lived. Each generation seemed to have
a little less rather than a little more. Much of the village’s wealth
had gone in fines and wergild.
Gringle lived in the shadow of his brothers Vogarth HearthGuard and Invarth Red-Cloak, until he married Orsta TradesWith-Trolls. She saw his potential and gave him the self-confidence
to achieve it.
Gringle turned around the fortunes of the village, providing
the missing leadership it needed.
He is a supporter of Broddi Strong-Kin. Gringle knows how to
fight, but speaks peace and negotiates instead of arguing. When
he takes his spear from the rack by the door, it is with a heavy
heart. He is good-tempered and generous.
He and Orsta Trades-With-Trolls have a son and two daughters.
He was not Orsta’s first choice, but made a happy life with her
all the same. He longs to arrange a reconciliation between Orsta
and her daughter.
Gringle Harvest-King gsx
Bloodline: Osmanning
Faction: The Eye of the Hurricane

OSMANNING HEADMAN:
GRINGLE HARVEST-KING gsx
Gringle is first a hard-working farmer. He is an example to those
around him of Orlanth the simple farmer; a god-talker, his example
helps many with their faith.
However, Gringle’s rise to become first a thane and then the
headman of his bloodline was a surprise.
His home, Sevenoaks village, was in decline, a village of halfcarls and cottars. It was the Red Cow’s trouble stead, where the

Age: 54
Keywords: God-Talker, Thane
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth g
Look: Frequently naked apart from his cloak; short
dark hair and beard; tattooed all over his body with
gsx Runes

THE HEADMEN
From left to right: Lhankpentos the Blind, Jarkorl Snow-Whiskers, Enerin Bristle-Beard, Tarkalus Bigger-Boat, Gringle Harvest-King

The Red Cow

41

THE WOMEN’S CIRCLE
From left to right: Griselda Gray-Tresses, Ustarna Try-Much, Voranga Many-Sorrows

THE WOMEN’S CIRCLE
The Women’s Circle is informal, but influential, a gathering of
the leading women of the clan, who follow Ernalda’s instruction
to ‘find another way.’ Their links with sisters, aunts, and cousins
in other clans provide informal channels of conversation between
the clans helping to resolve disputes without law or violence.
Those women who are part of the clan council sit on the
Women’s Circle, as do the grandmothers, priestesses, and female
god-talkers of the clan. The mothers of the Women’s Circle view
the world with the concerns of generations to come in mind, not
the now of the men.
Their attitude toward the rebellion typifies this. The women
remember Starbrow’s ill-fated Rebellion. Kallyr Starbrow drove the
Lunar Empire from Sartar and into Alda-Chur. The Empire rallied
and returned in force to crush the uprising; those who supported
the rebellion, such as the Culbrea tribe, suffered reprisals. The
Women’s Circle is not quick to recommend joining the rebel cause.
Griselda Gray-Tresses is the elder grandmother of the Women’s
Circle. The clan reveres her. Though the women strive to reach
consensus, when the circle cannot reach a conclusion, hers is the
final voice. She is an ally of Broddi Strong-Kin. He is eager to see
her promoted to the ring — and is keen to replace Salissa ThreeHusbands. Darna Longcoat is a keen rival. She is cautious about
the Daughters of Mabodh. “Far better to allow Jomes and the
Telmori to exhaust themselves fighting each other,” she claims,
“and move in later to defeat the weakened winner.”

42

Ustarna Try-Much is the clan’s best healer. Her herb garden is
a place of peace and sanctuary where the clan’s women sit and talk
in the summer months. Her love for every one of the clan’s children
makes her an opponent of conflict and a seeker of other ways. Nearly
everyone in the clan owes her for treating some injury or illness.
Voranga Many-Sorrows is an enigma. She speaks little on
the dangers the clan faces, and when she does, her comments are
oblique. No one can deny she seems to know many of the clan’s
secrets and lies. The other women are unsure whether to trust her,
for she is solitary and weird. However, the Kerenelling regard her
as holy and the circle could not exclude her.

ELDER GRANDMOTHER:
GRISELDA GRAY-TRESSES etW
Ambitious Griselda Gray-Tresses is tall and stately in bearing.
Despite her age, she is still beautiful. She is the daughter of a long
line of chieftains among the Underwillow, a distinction that has
made her proud and haughty. Griselda Gray-Tresses considers
herself second to no woman. Once she was on the ring, but Darna
Longcoat’s scheming replaced her. Griselda has never forgotten
that slight. She nurses her hatred and would see Darna brought
low before she dies.
Trusting to Broddi’s stewardship, she remains loyal to him and
his isolationist course.
As elder grandmother, she is present at all of the births and all
of the deaths of the clan. Her tattoo stick makes the sacred clan
mark upon everyone. She regards the clan as ‘her children’ and

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

she is both patronizing and concerned for their welfare. She has
seen chieftains come and go; she knows that it is the women who
endure and carry the clan forward.
She is influential member of the Auroch Bringers. She has participated in the Stealing of the Giant’s Cows with Broddi Strong-Kin.
The clan’s cattlemen respect her for her wisdom, and are grateful
for her blessings on their cattle. She has completed the Uralda’s
Blessing heroquest and the Women’s Circle defer to her for that.
Morgan Sword-Tongue her son, left home many years ago and
is serving as a mercenary in Pavis.
She goads and intimidates many of the clan’s men. She thinks
of most of them as fools who can accomplish little without a
good woman.
Griselda Gray-Tresses etW
Bloodline: Sarostiping nee Underwillow
Faction: The Coming Storm
Age: 66
Keywords: God-Talker
Magic: Devotee of Ernalda — Asrelia e
Look: Full sleeve tattoos on both arms; golden earrings; long gray tresses in braids; tall

HEALER:
USTARNA TRY-MUCH elx
Ustarna is a clever, compassionate young woman. The clan respects
her for her skills as a healer. Ustarna finds good in everyone, even
Jarstak Bristle-Beard. She warms to people and expresses genuine
interest in them and their dreams and nightmares. This instinctive
empathy means that she is a friend with almost everyone.
Ustarna has translated her empathy into concern for her kin.
She feels responsible for their happiness. The old clan healer Swena
the Upright recognized her instinctive compassion and took her as
an apprentice. Some of the other women balked at this, because
Ustarna was new to the clan. Swena rapped her staff on the Loom
House floor and shouted, “I will choose my apprentice, and I
choose Ustarna.” No one regrets the old woman’s wisdom now.
Swena taught her never to be soft, believing in tough love.
Ustarna is always caring even when she is scolding or nagging
the patients in her care. Few seem to doubt that she has their
best interests at heart.
Ustarna Try-Much elx
Bloodline: Tormakting nee Frithan
Faction: The Eye of the Hurricane
Age: 26
Keywords: Healer
Magic: Initiate of Ernalda l
Look: Blue-eyes; compassionate; infectious laugh;
long dark hair bound into two ridges with an elaborate
copper S-shaped headdress; soft smile

RAINMAKER:
VORANGA MANY-SORROWS wsx
Voranga lives as a solitary hermit in a cave near Ashwater Fall,
kept company by a pride of alynxes. She is a priestess of Tarena
the Blue Woman, a sub-cult of Heler.
Voranga is a thoughtful woman, and many seek her for her
wisdom. However, Voranga speaks in riddles, and is as hard to
pin down as water.
Queen Ivartha supports Voranga as the Cinsina tribal
Rainmaker. Voranga’s duty is to increase the rainfall on the
Cinsina’s fields and meadows. The rainmaking rituals involve
lovemaking in the fields. In spite of her age, she is still a handsome woman with youthful looks who has suitors from across
the Cinsina tribe. Orstalor Spearlord is one of her suitors, and
the Empire’s Moon Dogs regularly try to catch him visiting her
cave. Orstalor has always eluded them; mists and fogs conceal
his departure. The tribe has enjoyed good years of rain since
Orstalor began helping Voranga with her ceremonies.
She has married Red Cow men many times, and has many
children from those unions, but she has never moved to any
man’s village, refusing to be ‘second’ to anyone, always being
simply a ‘love wife.’ Voranga tells suitors, in her defense, that
she has loved all her husbands but her watery nature cannot be
held or contained.
She is sister to Borngold Many-Brothers. He idolizes her, yet
she frustrates him constantly with her moods and behavior.
Voranga Many-Sorrows wsx
Bloodline: Kerenelling nee Torkani
Faction: The Wolfskinners
Age: 46
Keywords: Priestess
Magic: Devotee of Heler w
Look: Hums and sings nonsense to herself but has
brief periods of intense clarity; long unbound silver
hair; often seems ‘not all there’; tall and willowy

OTHER THANES
Some of the clan’s thanes stand further from the chieftain in
influence. Outside of the inner ring or priesthood, unable to
command the support of the bloodlines, these men still wield
considerable influence and support. Orkarl Iron-Beard is the
grand old man of the Red Cow clan. A former chieftain, Orkarl
renounced all ambition to lead after the Lunar invasion. He lives
as a recluse, avoiding the day-to-day affairs of the clan. No supporter of Broddi Strong-Kin, Orkarl is keen to see the Red Cow
assert themselves, and avenge their suffering at the hands of the
Dinacoli. Kangharl Black-Brow is the ‘big man’ of the Tormakting
bloodline and most likely to take over from Lhankpentos when he
retires or dies. A man without compromise he is a stalwart friend
and unrelenting enemy.

The Red Cow

43

THANE:
ORKARL IRON-BEARD gst

Orkarl Iron-Beard gst

Orkarl was once called Bull-Rider because he led the charge against
the Dinacoli, astride a great black bull, and before that Belly-Laugh
and was chieftain of the Red Cow. At the Battle of Caroman,
during the Lunar invasion of Sartar in 1602, he fought and died.
Kesta’s Splendorbread brought him back to life, but he came back
changed. He had the re-life sickness after that and turned from
Orlanth to Humakt, renouncing the chieftaincy.
For many years, Orkarl lived in isolation, cut-off from the
rest of the clan. Many said he could not bear the company of
people he felt he had failed. Orkarl’s isolation only served to
increase his legend among the clan, and many ambitious young
men made a pilgrimage to his cabin to learn sword, spear, and
shield from the master.
In his later years, Orkarl’s pain has softened and he now lives
amidst people once again. Many would see him chieftain again,
but he always makes it clear he does not aspire to lead.
Despite his iron-gray hair, his muscles are still firm, his skills
still sharp. Clad in bronze scale and closed helm he still strikes
an imposing figure even Kernalda Other-Ways would fear to
challenge.
Orkarl’s biggest fear is dying in his bed.

Bloodline: None
Faction: The Conquering Storm
Age: 52
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Initiate of Humakt t
Look: Iron gray beard and hair, scarred face and arms,
wiry muscled frame

THANE:
KANGHARL BLACK-BROW gtW
Kangharl was a valiant raider when a young man. Now middle-aged
he has turned his attention to raising cattle and sons. He had three
sons by his wife, Yerestia Cat-Witch. Yerestia died three years ago
in the ‘Tormakt’s Farm Massacre’ when a group of Dinacoli raiders
burned a hall, killing the women and children, including Yerestia.
Kangharl has always wanted blood vengeance against Korlmhyor
the Swift of the Emerald Sword clan and never accepted Broddi’s
settlement with Duruvan.
Kangharl has an authoritative presence. He prefers intimidation
to negotiation. Some might call him a bully, a trait that has rubbed
off on his sons. He despises and mocks the weak.
Kangharl believes in taking responsibility. He despises those
who procrastinate. A man of firm action, whether right or wrong,
he says “It is better to correct your mistakes than never to act.”

OTHER NOTABLES
From left to right: Willandring the Giant, Orkarl Iron-Beard, Kangharl Black-Brow, Erinala Goodales

44

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

He is loyal to his men — always supporting them in public
even if he chastises them in private. Kangharl is generous when
buying service with gifts, but he expects loyalty in return. He has
little forgiveness for those who break their word or equivocate. He
is a man of plain speech not “mealy mouthed excuses.”
Kangharl is in love with Darna Longcoat and courts her, hoping
she will divorce her husband Kenstran Sword-Tongue. Kangharl
and Darna would make a powerful political alliance to which many
would be indebted. Supporters welcome the prospect as providing
strong leadership to the clan in a time of crisis — opponents worry
that it is too much power for one couple to wield.
Kangharl Black-Brow gtW
Bloodline: Tormakting
Faction: The Conquering Storm
Age: 40
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth g
Look: Long gray beard and hair; thick dark uni-brow;
swirling tattoos on the right side of his face

forge for him. Willandring has toiled here as a prisoner ever since,
nursing his hatred.
Willandring’s enormous strength and size make the task of
beating bronze into shape easy for him, often without the need to
soften it in the forge. He also knows the secrets of blacksmithing
or working iron, and fashions the iron spear points, arrowheads,
and even axes the clan uses to kill werewolves — whenever Queen
Ivartha can obtain the death-metal.
Willandring is circumspect about who taught him his metalworking skills. He speaks of a giant ‘as tall as a mountain’ who
lives in a pass somewhere in the eastern Rockwood Mountains
who trades some of the most valuable magical items in the world.
No one believes him.
The hobbled giant pushes himself about Red Cow Fort in a
handcart. Willandring has silently sworn that if his legs worked
again he would reap revenge on the children of Karganar.
Many fear the friendship shown the giant by Ustarna Try-Much.
She has become tempted to heal him and ill-treatment by the clan
could push her to such an act out of spite. Whilst Ustarna naively
believes Willandring would not take his revenge, the giant hungers for
vengeance. Broddi Strong-Kin does not trust the imprisoned giant.
Willandring the Giant j
Bloodline: Thrall

CRAFTSMEN

Faction: himself

Like most Orlanthi clans, the Red Cow clan has three crafters: a
redsmith (bronze-smith), a carpenter, and a potter. These crafters may
employ members of their household in their trade, and occasionally
take on one or two apprentices. The law considers crafters to have
the wergild of a cottar, but the clan values those who have specialist
knowledge. The chieftain’s wife, Emer Bridge-Water is a master
potter, but she throws few pots since she became a grandmother.
Now she passes her skills on to Bruthi the Gray, a young Blueberry
woman of considerable talent. Bruthi lives for her pottery, a fact
that concerns her husband Andrin, who wishes she would pay him
and the children more attention. Derik Wood-Shaper is angry at
the low status of crafters. He fears his sons will seek work with the
guilds in Jonstown where an artisan enjoys high status. He agitates
for the clan to provide better for them. Willandring the Giant,
the only non-human member of the clan, and the only thrall is
both loved and feared. Loved for what his skills can produce on
the anvil and forge, but feared for his promise of vengeance on the
clan for his enslavement. Erinala Goodale keeps the clan’s only inn
— a recent Lunar addition, that many regard as unnecessary when
visitors could either stay with the chieftain or in the bothies. The
Empire’s merchants seem to visit more now, so some have begun
to see benefits in having an inn in Red Cow Fort.

REDSMITH:
WILLANDRING THE GIANT j
Willandring is a thirty five-foot tall mountain giant who has
lived among the Red Cow since Karganar Blood-Eye brought his
people to Red Cow Fort. Willandring lived in the fort then, part
of a small group of giants holed up in their ancestor Bergilmer’s
former steading. Karganar killed the other giants, but hamstrung
Willandring, the smith. He then forced the giant to work at his

Keywords: Giant, Smith
Magic: j
Look: Thirty-five feet tall; hobbled — uses a handcart
to push himself around; large nose; jutting lower jaw;
shaggy hair; sullen and sad

INNKEEPER:
ERINALA GOODALE elx
Erinala sates the hunger of visitors to Red Cow Fort with her hot
pies and pasties, and slakes their thirst with her fresh ale. Her
easy-going manner and readiness to laugh and gossip with anyone
make her a firm favorite with regular visitors to Red Cow Fort.
Most call on her as soon as they arrive to arrange food and drink
for the night. Erinala encourages her guests to eat together when
the weather is good enough for them to sit outside. A crowd often
gathers in the summer for her ‘parties.’
Erinala cannot abide violence. She will not serve known troublemakers and always tries to ‘find the other way.’
The Empire approached Erinala to see if she would become
proprietor of an inn here. She willingly took the role, a decision
that helped many locals accept the idea. However, her husband,
Harlanth the Bald, is uncomfortable Erinala can earn far more
coin in looking after Red Cow’s visitors than he earns as a cottar,
laboring in other men’s fields. The resentment has simmered over
the years, and he opposes the idea of working for his wife in her
new inn. Sureela encourages her to divorce him and remain in
Red Cow Fort anyway. She hopes to teach Erinala secrets of the
Mothers and initiate her into the Moon.

The Red Cow

45

GIANTS
(HECALONTI, MOUNTAIN GIANT)
Giants are huge, dumb people. The typical giant is twenty
feet or so in height, but smaller and larger individuals are
common. A few giants are double this size.
Giants have low intelligence and are aggressive and
argumentative, even amongst themselves. They can use
their Contrary Ability to resist emotion or mind-affecting
magic (use a Very High resistance). They are also primitive,
and most lack the tools necessary for even simple culture.
Almost all other races fear the mindless destruction that
giants often cause.
Giants beat on their opponents with tree trunks or
simply stomp them into the ground. Sometimes a giant
will throw boulders to crush people or dwellings. Giants
show no imagination in combat, and are easily outmaneuvered or tricked by a clever opponent.
• Exceptional Abilities: Contrary, Stomp, Tough,
Tree Fighting.
• Legendary Abilities: Large, Strong

outlaws, and thieves who deserve little compassion. His men have
begun to disregard the ‘rights’ of locals, administering beatings
and reprisals without reprimand. He regards most local demands
for compensation for offenses as being attempts to profiteer from
the Empire. “Better they fear us than they hold us in contempt,”
has become the Dogeater attitude.
He will talk as an equal with chieftains or priests, or members
of the inner ring but dislikes the haughty attitude of other local
thanes, most of whom he regards a ‘jumped up’ local strong men.
Under orders from Jomes he is trying to set up joint patrols into
the wild areas to hunt down outlaws, but is worried that the local
forces are just as likely to turn on his men as help them.
Phargentes often clashes with Estavia. Estavia sees the purpose
of the Lunar presence in Red Cow Fort as being conversion of the
people. Phargentes thinks it is about maintaining order and keeping
the peace. She encourages the men to take part in games of kick-theball, sword-and-shields, and horse-fights with the locals. Phargentes
frowns on such fraternization, worrying that it will lead to discipline
issues or claims for compensation from the fractious locals.
Phargentes reports directly to Jomes Hostralos.
Phargentes Grinning-Scar 5tW
Nation: Tarsh
Faction: Lunar Empire
Age: 27

Erinala Goodale elx
Bloodline: Sarostiping nee Underwillow

Keywords: Soldier

Faction: The Moon Winds

Magic: Initiate of the Seven Mothers — Yanafil Tarnils
sub-cult 5

Age: 24

Look: Scar on right cheek; swagger; thinning red hair

Keywords: Innkeeper
Magic: Lay Member of the Seven Mothers e,
Initiate of Ernalda e

HIGH PRIESTESS OF THE LUNAR MISSION:
ESTAVIA GOLDEYES 2xl

Look: Pale complexion; buxom; hearty laugh

A committed young Tarshite woman Estavia left her home and
clan in Furthest to join the new adventure among the hill folk to
the south. She genuinely believes the Red Goddess will civilize
the ‘barbarians’ of Sartar. She is committed to bringing the same
religious transformation that Tarsh had to Sartar.
Mostly the missionaries come from Tarsh and the other provinces. Clans and leagues sponsor them, eager with the zeal of the
newly converted. They bring the message of the goddess through
the Provincial Church and the Seven Mothers. They recognize
the Heortlings’ lifestyle as being that of their ancestors and they
bring a message tailored to help such people understand. Up to
now, their proselytizing has been gentle, but the church presses
the Red Cow mission to be more dynamic in bringing the Moon.
Estavia goes about her missionary work with zeal. She is seemingly tireless, rising early and remaining up late. She is rarely found
‘cloistered’ in the mission, and is usually out and about. Events
have yet to wear her idealism down — she reacts to every setback
or reversal by re-doubling her efforts. Most of the mission responds
well to her enthusiasm, but Phargentes has begun to regard her
as dangerously naïve.
Estavia works particularly with the clan’s women, bringing
healing magic and advice, helping with childcare and domestic

THE LUNAR GARRISON
GARRISON COMMANDER:
PHARGENTES GRINNING-SCAR 5tW
Phargentes commands a detachment of 32 peltasts of the Doblian
Dogeaters (see Sartar Companion, page 12), providing the garrison for
Red Cow Fort. A career soldier, Phargentes is determined to acquit
himself with honor. His unit’s first year in the post has been rocky,
as they learn to fight a guerrilla war. Youthful optimism has been
replaced with cynicism as the sober reality of the conflict sinks in.
Phargentes came convinced that the Sartarites would welcome
the Empire as it brought the benefits of the Red Goddess. He has
been surprised by the hostility he has encountered. An ambush that
left him with a vicious scar on one cheek colored his perception
even more. Inside the forts and cities Phargentes feels that he and
his men can relax, but in the backcountry, he feels threatened,
isolated, and outnumbered.
His attitude, increasingly reflected by his men, is to assume that
people outside the towns and cities are mostly rebel sympathizers,

46

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

THE LUNAR GARRISON
From left to right: Phargentes Grinning-Scar, Estavia GoldEyes, Bolik Red-Turner, Sureela Far-Travelled

labor. While she helps, she tells stories of the Seven Mothers and
of the Red Goddess. She is happiest when surrounded by children,
because she sees them as the easiest to win to new thinking. She
is also often found in Sardalham, where many have converted.
Estavia GoldEyes 2xl
Nation: Tarsh
Faction: Lunar Empire
Age: 27
Keywords: Priestess
Magic: Sevened Initiate of the Seven Mothers —
Queen Deezola sub-cult 21
Look: Willowy; golden eyes; winning smile

PRIEST OF THE BLACK MOON:
BOLIK RED-TURNER 6xy

would mock his speech. His father, known for his oratory, found
his son’s affliction particularly galling. Bolik was withdrawn and
timid as a result. Estavia listened to him, recognized his intelligence,
and helped him to speak despite his stutter. That kindness drew
Bolik to the Seven Mothers.
The enthusiasm of the convert fires Bolik. He is immune to
jibes and catcalling. He is earnest and no conversation is safe from
his homilies or tales of the goddess. Many find this off-putting.
The Red Cow thanes often mock him at feasts for this. At heart
though, he is a good listener, kind-hearted, and loyal to his kin
so he has had some success.
He has ambitions to build his own slave manor along the Heort
Creek, much like those in the Nymie Valley.
He knows he will need considerable investment to fund this
ambition and has applied to become the Tax Collector for the
Cinsina, hoping to skim enough from that to fund his dreams.
Bolik Red-Turner 6xy

Bolik is a convert to the provincial church. Employed as a priest
of the Seven Mothers he now leads services for the faithful in
Red Cow Fort. He is Estavia’s protégé and she fawns over him.
Some of the other priests of the mission resent her favoritism
and bully Bolik when Estavia is out of sight. Phargentes finds
him somewhat gauche and Jomes finds the ‘stuttering priest’
amusing, but Bolik knows the Seven Mothers are with him
every step that he takes.
As a teenager, Bolik was the victim of bullying by both his
father and the other children of his home. He stuttered and they

Bloodline: Bolthoring
Faction: The Moon Winds
Age: 19
Keywords: Priest
Magic: Initiate of the Seven Mothers — Danfive Xaron
sub-cult 6
Look: Crimson cloak, pale complexion, and stutter

The Red Cow

47

THE WAR OF THE
ONE-EYED WOMAN
To settle an old feud
with the Six Stones
Orkarl married his
sister Estava GoldenHair to their chieftain
Dangmag Spear-Rattler.
Estava and Dangmag
contracted a yearmarriage to see if they
got on well. Estava lost
an eye in an accident
at Dangmag’s stead,
and bore him no sons.
When the year was out,
Dangmag sent her away
mounted on a one-eyed
horse, led by a one-eyed
man and followed by a
one-eyed alynx.
This was an insult to
the Red Cow and the
two clans fought the
War of the One-EyedWoman over that.
THE BURNING OF

48

PRIESTESS OF THE FULL MOON
‘SHE WHO WAITS’:
SUREELA FAR-TRAVELED 5el
Sureela has come a long way from her home in
Sylila. She longed to leave the small-minded world
of the village and visit the wide lands of the Empire.
She ran away with some traveling entertainers
and spent her early years earning her keep as a
puppeteer, actor, and juggler in Jillaro. Inspired
by the Conquering Daughter she decided to go
south along the Daughter’s Road. Along the way
she became a mercenary, an assassin in a Dart War
between associations vying for control of the trade
along the Oslir, a caravan master who won and
lost a fortune trading with the citadel of Elkoi
in Balazar, an explorer of the ruins of Pavis and
finally a missionary to the peoples of Dragon Pass.
Sureela loves adventure and excitement. It seems
strange that she would find much to interest her in
a backwater like Red Cow Fort instead of Jonstown
or Boldhome. What draws Sureela here though is
not the prospect of converting the barbarian hordes,
but the excitement of the game of undermining
the rebellion.
As priestess of She Who Waits, she is in charge
of the Secret Moon and works to further the spread
of the Red Goddess by any means (see Sevening and
Illumination in Pavis: Gateway to Adventure, page
407). She travels in disguise among the clans, using
actor’s tricks and her own experience to portray
herself as an Issaries Goldentongue merchant from
the Bach tribe, a refugee from the Dundealos tribe,
a wandering entertainer from a Puppeteer Troupe
or a caravan guard. So convincing are her disguises
she has wandered Red Cow Fort without anyone
recognizing her.
She gains intelligence from many sources including a small band of small children who bring her
tales in return for sweets. Some of her personas have
reached the fringes of the rebellion, but she has yet to
track down its leaders Orstalor Spearlord and Venharl
Stormbrow. She knows about Ivartha’s spymistress
Camille, and enjoys the game of evasion with her.
Estavia has little idea how to use Sureela’s abilities.
Although Sureela reports to her, she has begun to
ignore her, as Estavia’s instructions are usually pastoral. Instead, Sureela wages her own war against
the rebellion. Estavia would react badly if she found
out what her priestess was doing.

Sureela Far-Traveled 5el
Nation: Sylila
Faction: Lunar Empire
Age: 29
Keywords: Spy
Magic: Sevened Initiate of the Seven
Mothers — Yanafal Tarnils sub-cult 51
Look: Long dark hair worn in a single
plait, athletic build, wears men’s clothing

RED COW
CHIEFTAINS
Here is a list of the chieftains:
• Karganar Blood-Eye: 1412-1420; he negotiated with Many-Breath and formed the first
clan.
• Tormakt Stout-Hearted: 1421-1425; he
died fighting against the Culbrea.
• Maklan the Fat and Good: 1425-1433; he
was the first to raise the red cows that made
the clan famous.
• Torlanth the Tall: 1433-1441; The Great
Peace occurred under his guidance; we
prospered.
• Edrath the Guileless: 1442-1446; He was
gullible and gave away much of our wealth.
• Andrin the Doughty: 1446-1452; He
avenged the clan against those who fooled
Edrath.
• Hedbrast the Bold: 1452-1455; He fell
against the Telmori when they came south of
the Creek.
• Yinor Ever-Laughing: 1455-1458; King
Illaro wiped the smile from his face.
• Starkor Two-Axes 1458-1460; His rule was
bloody and brief, but he kept us alive; the
Telmori killed him.
• Koschei the Archer: 1460-1462; The
Telmori killed him.
• Broddi Iron-Wielder: 1463-1466; The
Telmori killed him.
• Ashart Long-Limbed: 1466-1470; The
Telmori killed him.
• Orkarl Badger-Beard: 1470-1475; Joined
Hauberk Jon in taking the fight to the wolfmen; the Telmori killed him.
• Ilgan Raven-Flag: 1475-1482; the people
voted for him, despite the words of the blind
woman. Under his rule the people joined first

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

the Jonstown Confederation and then Sartar’s
kingdom.
• Willem the Knowing: 1482-1500; he
allowed the Lunar missionaries to preach in
his hall.
• Jaranil the Tall: 1501-1511; single-handedly
held the river gate at Red Cow Fort when the
Dinacoli attacked.
• Leika Wyrd-Weaver: 1512-1520; she was
the first woman to guide the clan. Her rule
brought peace.
• Andrin Rock-Buster: 1521-1523; under his
chieftainship the old feuds with the Dinacoli
flared up.
• Drenyani the Lucky: 1524-1529; she
brought peace with the Greenhaft clan after
the Copper Ingots Feud.
• Ashart Silver-Blade: 1542-1548; he married
the Blueberry chieftain’s daughter Jafoksa
Smoke-Eyes. The Blueberry clan helped raid
the Split Waters of the Maboder after that.
• Daylanor the Shieldless: 1563-1573; he
helped Jarosar Hothead build his road from
Jonstown to Dangerous Isle, but earned the
clan the undying enmity of the Elmali.
• Gannara the Lowfire: 1574-1577; she tried
to weave peace with the Dinacoli but failed.
• Orkarl Belly-Laugh: 1578-1602; after his
death, he renounced the chieftaincy and
became called Orkarl Iron-Beard because he
suffered from the re-life sickness.
• Valenstor Moor-Leaper: 1602-1613; led
the people during the Wolf Hunt against the
Telmori. He sided with Kallyr during her
first rebellion and the clan removed him to
avoid punishment from the Empire.
• Broddi Strong-Kin: 1613 — present.

LIVING MEMORY
1563-1573 DAYLANOR THE
SHIELDLESS
Daylanor, born 1509, married Leika Herd-Rich
who bore him three sons and two daughters: Krogar
Shield-Breaker, Hindal Moor-Leaper, Orkarl BellyLaugh who became chieftain, Estava the One-EyedWoman, and Unstana Peace Weaver.
For many years, Daylanor led his people against the
Sun worshippers. He helped Jarosar Hothead build his
road from Jonstown to Dangerous Isle, but earned the
clan the undying enmity of the Dolutha. He fought
against the Emerald Sword clan of the Dinacoli many
times. When Yelmalio came, Daylanor was among
those opposed to the missionaries of the new god.
When the Red Cow joined King Tarkalor against
the Kitori, Tarkalor reconciled Daylanor with the Sunworshippers, but there was still no love between them.

1574-77 GANNARA THE LOWFIRE
After Daylanor, Gannara tried to weave peace with
the Emerald Sword clan. Gannara became distracted
because she had to fight the Green Ale Feud with
the Two-Pine chieftain Kulestan the Red, over the
insult the Red Cow’s emissaries had been offered
when visiting Horse Rest.

1578-1602 ORKARL BELLY-LAUGH
Orkarl, born 1552, was the son of Daylanor the
Shieldless.
During his father’s chieftainship, the Emerald
Sword clan raided the Red Cow. Orkarl mounted
a bull and commanded his kinsmen to do likewise
and that day Orkarl Bull-Rider’s cavalry routed
the Dinacoli.
Orkarl married Rostala Sun-willow of the
Blueberry clan of the Culbrea. The Cinsina outlawed him in 1573 for killing a Dolutha thane,
but he later returned to take his place as chieftain.
When King Tarkalor led Sartar to defeat in Tarsh
in 1582 Orkarl led the Red Cow in support. He
mourned the High King greatly at his death and
sent fine gold torcs to his funeral.
Orkarl didn’t want to be involved in the Ferry
Feud with the Emerald Sword but he couldn’t deny
the right of Koschei Braggart’s kin to blood vengeance.
He joined the Dark Friends feud with the Emerald
Sword on behalf of the Torkani. Mistress Sazdorf
met with him to request his aid as a troll friend. The
Sazdorf and the Torkani owe the Red Cow for that.
Later, Prince Terasarin made peace between the
Dinacoli and the Emerald Sword, and Orkarl swore
undying loyalty to his House because of that.
Orkarl had to confront Ulanin Iron-Side of the
Two-Pine and his demands for the Seven Tributes.
Orkarl formed an alliance with the Blueberry clan
of the Culbrea. In some years they fought off the
howling raiders from Horse Rest, in others they paid
the Red Cow Tribute.
It was under his chieftainship that the clan suffered defeats at the Battle of the Finger against the
Two-Pine, and the Burning of Eoric’s Stead against
the Maboder.
Orkarl led his people in defense of the kingdom
when the Empire came. He escaped the Crimson Bat
at Runegate, killed a Lunar thane at Caroman and
unfurled the Red Cow’s battle banner at Boldhome,
standing beside Prince Salinarg. He died but his
loyal thanes bought him back to life with Kesta’s
splendorbread; but he did not laugh for years and
was no longer chieftain.

EORIC’S STEAD
The Split Waters clan
had long laid claim
to lands north of
the boundary from
Fordstone to the Bag
and the Finger. In the
1590s the Split Waters
began a feud over the
disputed land.
In 1596, a Split Waters
raiding band burnt
Eoric’s Stead killing
everyone inside.
Ghosts haunted the
ruins of Eoric’s Stead
and all attempts to farm
the land by the Red
Cow failed with settlers
driven out by the ghosts
of those who died.
Many in the Red Cow
will still not support the
Daughters of Mabodh,
whose leader is Enastara
the Red, one of the
burners, because of
this history.

1602-1613 VALENSTOR MOOR-LEAPER
Valenstor led the clan after Orkarl fell. His eldest
son Errol Laugh-Much took his father’s laughter
when he died at Caroman Pass.

The Red Cow

49

THE RESETTLEMENT
OF EORIC’S STEAD
In 1605 Farandar
Orendalsson attempted
to appease the ghosts
of Eoric’s Stead. He
discovered that their
anger could not be
sated until the burners
had been brought to
justice. Farandar and
his supporters took blood
vengeance against the
burners, killing them
individually or in
small groups until the
Split Waters chieftain
Babessa the Merciless
agreed compensation
and outlawry for the
burning. After that
Farandar was able to
settle Eoric’s Stead again.

TORKAN’S VALE
When King
Kathelranda of the
Maboder led the
resettlement of Torkan’s
Vale — Valenstor
Moor-Leaper opposed
Cinsina involvement,
citing Sartar’s pacts
with the Telmori.
Many young men
went anyway. Their
leader was Ivartha
the Skinner, who took
service with King
Kathelranda. She
earned the scars on her
face when the Maboder
were destroyed. Red
Cow mothers still
lament that their sons
followed Ivartha on that
doomed adventure.

THE FIRST & LAST STAND OF BRODDI STRONG-KIN
The Red Cow had paid tribute to the Two-Pine
clan ever since Sartar had arranged a settlement
with the Culbrea tribe. Following Starbrow’s
Rebellion the Culbrea were weakened: they
had lost many of their warriors in the fighting;
their king, Hofstaring Treeleaper was imprisoned in a Lunar Hell and Ranulf Turn-Tail sat
on their throne.
In 1614, Broddi stopped paying the Red
Cow Tribute, and encouraged the Blueberry,

TORMAKT’S FARM MASSACRE
In 1615, an Emerald Sword cattle raid turned
into a disaster when Korlmhyor the Swift and
his brother Broyan Never-Quiet burned a hall,
killing women and children. Broddi Strong-Kin
negotiated compensation with Duruvan the

Fat but Kangharl Black-Brow always refused
the blood money for his wife Yerestia CatWitch, saying that only blood vengeance could
satisfy his honor.

Valenstor led the clan during the Burners of
Eoric’s Stead feud with the Split Waters clan of
the Maboder and the subsequent Resettlement of
Eoric’s Stead.
When Kathelranda began settling Torkan’s Vale
he opposed Red Cow involvement
He led the people during the Wolf Hunt against
the Telmori, and the clan exchanged promises of
friendship with the Lunar general Jomes Hostralos.
Valenstor was chieftain when Findar Longsword
of the Two-Pine renewed taking the Seven Tributes.
The clan paid a heavy price in the Bloody Sword
Tribute raids in 1611, and paid the Red Cow Tribute
between 1611 and 1613. Many in the clan were
angry at that, and Farandar Orendalsson challenged
for the chieftaincy in 1612, but lost.
He opposed the election of Ivartha the Skinner to
become Queen, despite her being a kinswoman and
sided with Kallyr during her rebellion, leading the
clan’s warband in support, despite Queen Ivartha’s
opposition.
Jomes gave his old allies in the Red Cow a stark
choice, supported by Ivartha and they removed
Valenstor as chief to avoid further punishment
from the Empire.

had grown tired of war. When Jomes sought assurances that they would no longer oppose the Empire,
many were eager to elect Broddi Strong-Kin who
promised to strive for peace.
For the last five years Broddi has worked to bring
peace with the Empire.
Despite his best efforts to sweeten them, relations
with the Dolutha soured when a diplomatic mission
taking Ivar gifts of friendship and good will led by
Salissa Three-Husbands, ended in disaster with the
breaking of the Dolutha’s sacred treasure, the spear
Ferfal’s Fire. Orlmakt Nine-Winds who broke the
Dolutha’s spear fled the clan before Broddi could
exile him to appease Ivar.
Broddi negotiated peace with the Emerald Sword
after the Tormakt’s Farm Massacre. In 1617, Kangharl
Black-Brow, never happy with the settlement, led
a cattle raid against the Emerald Sword. Jarstak
Bristle-Beard killed Torath Silk-Breeches and no
offer of compensation by Broddi could settle the
matter. The Emerald Sword champion, Rostakus
Twice-Outlawed, tried to settle the feud in a duel
at Dangerford; he killed the Red Cow champion
Jordarn the Clash. Far from ending the feud this
killing further enraged the Red Cow clan.
Kangharl opposes any attempts by Broddi to
settle the Silk-Breeches feud, and young men, eager
to flex their muscles against the old enemy north of
the Creek, flock to his hall.

1613+ BRODDI STRONG-KIN
After the feuds with the Maboder, the Wolf Hunt,
the Invasion and Starbrow’s Rebellion the Red Cow

50

Goodhaven and Greenhaft clans not to pay
tribute either. Red Cow and Blueberry thanes
stood shoulder-to-shoulder when the Two-Pine
sought to exact tribute, and beat them off.
The Cinsina have not paid tribute to the
Culbrea since then, and Broddi was carried to
his hall standing on his shield, born by his four
supporters, as befits a great war-leader in victory.
Some say that day was the first and last
time that Kangharl spoke in praise of Broddi.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

The Red Cow

51

INDEX OF RED COW NPCS
Name

Position

Bloodline

Faction

Page

Broddi Strong-Kin

Chieftain

Sarostiping

Eye of the Hurricane

32

Darna Longcoat

Ring: Ernalda the Earth

Bolthoring nee Frithan

The Conquering Storm

33

Salissa Three-Husbands

Ring: Uralda the Cow

Sarostiping nee
Underwillow

The Conquering Storm

34

Ring: Esra the Barley Mother

Tormakting nee Blueberry

Free Sartar

34

Farandar Orendalsson

Ring: Barntar

Osmanning

Free Sartar

34

Borngold Many-Brothers

Ring: Voriof the Shepherd

Kerenelling

The Wolfskinners

35

Frekor Deep-Woods

Ring: Odayla

Sarostiping

The Wolfskinners

35

Jaranil the Thunder

Leader of Chieftain’s
Housecarls

Tormakting

The Conquering Storm

36

Kernalda Other-Ways

Chieftain’s Housecarl

Kerenelling

Free Sartar

37

Ortossi Ketilsson

Chieftain’s Housecarl

Osmanning

The Wolfskinners

37

Jarstak Bristle-Beard

Chieftain’s Housecarl

Tormakting

The Conquering Storm

37

Aethelric the Girl

Chieftain’s Housecarl

Kerenelling

The Wolfskinners

38

Ashart Dusk-Eater

Chief Priest of Orlanth

Tormakting

Free Sartar

39

Lhankpentos the Blind

Headman

Tormakting

Eye of the Hurricane

40

Jarkorl Snow-Whiskers

Headman

Sarostiping

Eye of the Hurricane

40

Enerin Bristle-Beard

Headman

Bolthoring

Free Sartar

40

Tarkalus Bigger-Boat

Headman

Sardaling

The Moon Winds

40

Gringle Harvest-King

Headman

Osmanning

The Eye of the Hurricane

41

Griselda Gray-Tresses

Elder Grandmother

Sarostiping nee
Underwillow

The Conquering Storm

42

Healer

Tormakting nee Frithan

The Eye of the Hurricane

43

Priestess of Tarena

Kerenelling

The Wolfskinners

43

Orkarl Iron-Beard

Thane

None

The Conquering Storm

44

Kangharl Black-Brow

Thane

Tormakting

The Conquering Storm

44

Willandring the Giant

Smith

Thrall

Himself

45

Innkeeper

Sarostiping nee
Underwillow

The Moon Winds

45

Garrison Commander

Tarsh

Lunar Empire

46

Estavia GoldEyes

High Priestess of the Lunar
Mission

Tarsh

Lunar Empire

46

Bolik Red-Turner

Priest of the Black Moon

Bolthoring

The Moon Winds

47

Sureela Far-Traveled

Priest of the Full Moon

Sylila

Lunar Empire

48

Kullina the Fat

Ustarna Try-Much
Voranga Many-Sorrows

Erinala Goodale
Phargentes Grinning-Scar

52

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 3

• Chapter 4 •

THE WOLFSLAYERS
HISTORY OF
THE CINSINA
The Cinsina came to these lands three hundred
years ago. They have had to fight many enemies to
call them their own: the Grazeland Pony Breeders,
cruel horse nomads, who used the land for summer
pasture and dragged many clan folk into slavery,
jealous Culbrea and Dinacoli kings who wanted
the land for their own, and the Telmori, who were
not people, and so savage that they ate whole clans.

THE TAMING OF
DRAGON PASS

Deathline in the north. It became a haunted land,
home only to the Elder Races. The trolls, elves,
dwarves, and dragonewts dominated Dragon Pass,
and squabbled among themselves. People call this
period the Inhuman Occupation.
Three hundred years ago Belintar the Stranger
swam ashore in Kethaela. After a five-year struggle,
Belintar deposed the Only Old One, smashing the
Castle of Black Glass. Belintar became the GodKing, and declared that Kethaela was henceforth
the ‘Holy Country.’
Many of the people in Heortland disliked the
God-King’s rule. Colymar of the Orshanti raised
the Black Spear and took his followers north. He
bargained with the Kitori kings for passage and took
his band across the Crossline into Dragon Pass.

THE NEW LAND

THE INHUMAN OCCUPATION
Five hundred years ago, the Dragonkill exterminated
every human being in Dragon Pass. After that,
people kept away from the dragon’s ancestral home.
No one dared pass the Crossline in the south or the

For ten years, no one knew that those traveling north
had survived. Colymar’s exiles found a new land
and soon a town and villages were established. They
could not keep their secret and by 1325, word had
spread to those in Heortland: the wards had failed,

THE LEFTOVER SAGAS
The Resettlement Sagas are the oral histories of
the migration north from the Holy Country into
the haunted lands of Dragon Pass. They preserve
the history of ‘how we came to live here.’ The
Sagas of the Leftovers are the stories of the
people who the Resettlement sagas forgot — the
ones who survived by becoming or doing something else. Fewer people listen to these stories
now, but just sometimes a wandering skald
decides to tell a tale of the ‘forgotten people.’

LEFTOVER SAGAS: THE SANCHALI
Everyone remembers the Resettlement Sagas of
how the Cinsina came to be — how Cinsin the
Red saved the Sanchali survivors, huddled in
their refuges, from the Telmori and became the
king of a new tribe. But what fewer sagas tell
is that not all of the survivors became Cinsina,
some chose to remain Sanchali.

When peace was made there was no place
for those that remained Sanchali — the settlement drew boundaries that excluded them.
The Leftover sagas tell how Geo saved the
Sanchali. Geo was one of Sartar’s companions, his master-brewer and cook. He found
a solution for the Sanchali by asking Sartar
to grant the Sanchali permission to live on
other tribe’s lands, especially in the newly
founded cities.
The clan became the first members of
Geo’s hospitality cult and worked as innkeepers, brewers, cooks, servers and bouncers.
Some people called them ‘Geo’s Salvation
Army’ but others remember and called them
the Sanchali. Even today the finest chefs and
brewers take pride in their descent from the
old tribe, and honor old bonds of kinship
amongst themselves.

The Wolfslayers

YOUR HISTORY
The clan’s prejudices
come from history.
The PCs’ fathers tell
them that the ‘only
good Telmori is a
dead Telmori,’ spit on
the ground whenever
someone mentions the
Dinacoli, and turn
around three times and
ask the Finger Women
for protection if someone
mentions Brangbane’s
name rather than
speaking of the King of
the Ghouls. Their aunts
tell them that Maggara
Goodhaven-Born ‘is
a no-good’ because
she was born into a
Culbrea clan, rather
than the Underwillow.
Their uncles mention
cousin Hahlgrim who
was ‘nailed to a cross’
for keeping faith with
Orlanth, and refuse
to speak to the ‘Moon
Winds’ who betrayed
Orlanth and Ernalda to
join the Seven Mothers.

53

Colymar survived, and Dragon Pass was open again. Many of
those that followed were adventurers, bandits, and ne’er do wells.
The Cinsina crossed the Crossline in 1379, bargaining and
fighting their way past the clans south of the Quivin Mountains.
Of course, the newcomers were not the Cinsina then, but a ragtag
collection of bloodlines and families. They came from Heortland,
and the North March in Esrolia. Many traced their ancestry to
the warrior bands who ruled the Adjusted Lands in the Second
and early Third Ages and shared lineage and history bound them
together. Heroes and leaders emerged among the refugees in their
struggle to forge a place for themselves in the new land.

Those who traveled first had already taken the lands to the
south of the Quivin Mountains. King Varsmar of the Colymar
invited the newcomers to join them and settle the under-populated
lands along the Stream in Duck Vale. The duck folk resisted but
the Colymar prevailed and in 1380, the newcomers formed new
settlements allied to the Colymar. Three years later, an undead
army walked out of the Upland Marsh, defeating a Lismelder
force gathered to stop them and went on to kill the settlers and
burn farms in the Durulz Valley.
In 1392, after nine years of fighting, King Varsmar learned
that only the ducks could keep the undead armies from attacking.

LEFTOVER SAGAS: THE ARSGOL
The coming of Sartar forms the climax to many of the
Resettlement Sagas — his arrival heralds a peace and prosperity for the tribes that is in stark contrast to the years of
struggle before. Many sagas end with the building of Sartar’s
cities, uniting former foes against a common enemy, and
a turning of the tribe’s fortunes.
For many of the clans or tribes in the Leftover sagas,
Sartar’s arrival does not herald stability but change — he
was a Larnsting after all. These are the clans and tribes
who Sartar turned into something new, so that he could
build his kingdom.
The Arsgol clan of the Malani had occupied an ancient
hill fort on High Hill. It was always a center of worship for
the inhabitants of Boranini Vale, and controlled access to

54

the strategically important routes into Arfritha Vale and to
Boldhome. During the fight against the Telmori it was one
of the refuges for beleaguered farmers.
When Sartar chose High Hill as the location of his new
city Jonstown, he gave the Arsgol citizenship, land within
and outside the city, and rights and privileges on the city
council. In return, they surrendered land to the tribes of
the confederation, and the temples within the city itself.
No longer would the clan follow a chieftain, or Malani king,
instead they would follow the elected mayor of Jonstown.
Even today the old families of Jonstown, and most
powerful landholders outside the city, can trace their
ancestry to the Arsgol clan.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 4

He established a treaty with them to return to Durulz Valley in
return for protection from the undead corpses of the Upland
Marsh and ordered the settlers to leave. He paid the ducks compensation for their dead. He sent the newcomers away, telling
them that there was no land for them, but giving them passage
through Colymar lands, offering them continued protection
and friendship.
In 1395, the settlers passed out of Colymar lands through
Streamvale, over the Thunder Hills and paid tribute to pass the
Malani of Arfritha Vale. They found the lands along the southern
tributaries of the Creek, the Lorthing and Boranini Rivers had
few settlers. The rich alluvial soils were ideal for growing hay and
breeding fat cattle. By 1420, the leaders among the refugees had
become the chieftains of new clans among the refugees: Underwillow,
Frithan, Brusting, Osmann, and Drutorae.

THE FERFAL ALLIANCE
The settlers allied with the Dolutha, Redaldings and the Twin
Brothers, a triaty of three clans living north of the Creek on the
Donalf Flats and breeding fine horses. They called themselves the
Ferfal Alliance and told the newcomers that they had come from
the north, crossing the Deathline, fleeing from the expanding
Lunar Empire. They spoke Tarshite, not the Southern Theyalan
of the newcomers. The Ferfal Alliance had formed when a Grazer
clan returned to their traditional summer pasturage along the

flood plain of the Creek. They found the settlers building their
villages there. Negotiations broke down. The Grazeland Pony
Breeders refused to share the land with people who worshipped a
‘false sun.’ A fight broke out, no one recalls who struck the first
blow, and soon both Grazeland Pony Breeders and settlers were
lamenting their dead. Ferfal Dolutha and his kin led their people
to fight for their new land. Ferfal’s brother Jarosar decapitated the
Grazer chieftain at the Battle of the Sun Horses bringing the Ferfal
Alliance victory, forcing the Grazeland Pony Breeders from the
lands around the Creek. Even so Grazer raids continued, carrying
off settlers to work as slaves for years to come.

THE SANCHALI
For a while, the settlers along the Creek prospered but soon their
swelling herds attracted raiders from Lorthing Vale, Jarolvale, and
Torkan’s Vale. Envious cattle raids inevitably ended in deaths, and
deaths led to blood feuds. Relations soured and the antagonism
continued for many years. It came to a head in 1424 when the
Culbrea tribe pushed north from Lorthing Vale toward the Creek.
They seized the lands along the Lorthing and Boranini rivers
between Larnste’s Table and Drumtop pushing the new settlers
north. At the same time, the Malani tribe came from the west
declaring that the clans who had passed through Arfritha Vale
now owed them tribute.

The Wolfslayers

55

For two years, the Culbrea and Malani kings warred with the
settlers threatening their extinction. It was Sanchal Crooked-Teeth,
a Frithan chieftain, who united and saved them. He convinced
the clan chieftains that they could only remain free by uniting
as a tribe against their enemies. In 1426, he organized the clans’
disparate warriors under one banner, fighting off the Malani and
Culbrea at the Battle of Fordstone, later becoming the first king
of the Sanchali tribe.

THE TELMORI
The Telmori werewolves were a nomadic hunter-gatherer people
who spurned the plow, village, and smithy. They did not distinguish
between two-legged and four-legged people, and in fact paired
them from childhood as ‘beast brothers.’ People feared and fought
them whenever they could, but pockets still lived to the north of
Dragon Pass. A tribe of them migrated south in 1455, fighting
with everyone they met on the way.

THE FALL OF THE SANCHALI
King Estavar Lightbringer of the Underwillow was the second king
of the Sanchali. He always lived in Sanchal’s shadow and it was
as much as he could do to keep the newly formed tribe together.
Once the threat from the Culbrea and Malani had subsided, people
had little interest in the tribe.
King Estavar tried to unite the clans against the Telmori when
they arrived, but the Telmori killed the king and his entire household.

56

The Telmori stole the Sanchali’s sacred regalia and afterwards
the tribe was no more. The threat was too great for the scattered
surviving clans. When the Telmori overran the Osmann clan, the
survivors were so few that they joined with the Drutorae to become
one clan (which would become the Red Cow). The survivors
huddled in strongholds like Red Cow Fort and Dangerford and
prayed to Orlanth for succor.
In Torkan’s Vale, east of the Sanchali lands, the wolfmen fell
upon the Torkani killing all they could catch and laying waste to
the settler’s villages. The werewolves settled the Wolf Ridges and
raided the lands around.

ILLARO’S WAR
The Telmori had moved, or had been pushed south following the
end of the Tarshite Civil War. In 1458, the victor in that struggle,
King Illaro of Tarsh, marched south to bring the Quivini under
Tarshite dominion. He dreamed of the Greater Tarsh of Yarandros
the Charger, who once ruled all these lands. He raised mercenaries
among the clans settled around Alda-Chur and then his army swept
down Dwarf Valley and crossed the Donalf Flats.
When the Ferfal Alliance tried to resist his advance, he crushed
them at the Fall of Dangerford. Illaro’s forces wiped out the
Redaldings, and forced the Twin Brothers and Dolutha south of
the Creek. The survivors fought with the Sanchali for land, and
then King Illaro moved in demanding tribute from the exhausted
survivors, marching south to Killard Vale before returning to Tarsh.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 4

King Illaro gave Blueboar Fort to his companion Dinacol
Hard-Rule, charging him with keeping the Telmori south of
the Creek and taking the tribute from the clans there. However,
Dinacol offered the clans little protection from the Telmori in
return for their wealth.

THE YEARS IN HIDING
The Telmori continued to annihilate the clans south of the Creek
and north of the Quivin Mountains. Their bands roamed as they
willed, killing farmers, burning steads and villages, and devouring
livestock. The Sanchali, Ferfal Alliance, and Torkani survivors
huddled in whatever defensive locations they could find.
The Telmori all but obliterated the Twin Brothers during the
Heort Creek Massacre and the survivors fled to their allies the
Dolutha, hiding out on Isle Dangerous at Dangerford.
In 1363, Cinsin the Wolfskinner gathered survivors into Red
Cow Fort. His household, the Wolfskinners, had iron weapons
and magic and were amongst the most successful Telmori fighters. His reputation became strong enough to gather a number
of surviving Sanchali clans around him along with the Dolutha
survivors of the Ferfal Alliance. They pooled resources to create
regalia and formed the Cinsina tribe. The Cinsina practice of
the king moving from clan to clan each season began at this
time. With roving bands of Telmori making travel dangerous
for common folk, it was safer for the king and his household
to travel to the clans. The clans welcomed the king’s household

because the warriors of his household offered protection from
the Telmori packs.
King Cinsin was the first to understand that the Telmori were
strong only when they were united under a war-leader. He led
his household on a raid that killed Heljar the Telmori war-leader
and broke the unity of the Telmori. Before he could exploit his
triumph, the Telmori in turn killed him.
Mabodh May-Not-Be-Moved also rose to prominence at this
time. She cleared out the old hill fort at Stonegate and fortified it.
Then she called survivors from nearby clans within the shadow of
its walls. She made the clans switch to arable farming. With few
livestock, they had less to attract Telmori raiders to their land than
the Cinsina herders. They were also close enough to Stonegate
to flee there given sufficient warning. The survivors gathered at
Stonegate elected Mabodh the first queen of the tribe.
The Torkani survivors, driven north, threw themselves on the
mercy of the trolls of the Indigo Mountains. The trolls agreed to
protect the Torkani, if the Telmori should ever enter their lands,
in return for the Indigo Tribute.
At times clans joined with the Culbrea and Malani for protection, hoping that the kings of those tribes could beat the wolfmen.
However, these tribes had their own troubles such as when the
Telmori annihilated the Stonewater and Kortyrling clans of the
Culbrea who lived around Two-Pine Ridge and Jarolvale. The
tribal alliances of the clans in this region shifted continually as
the fortunes of the kings rose and fell.

The Wolfslayers

57

‘HAUBERK’ JON
The stalemate between the Telmori and the Orlanthi persisted
between 1460 and 1470. The Orlanthi were strong enough to
stay alive, but too weak to push the Telmori out.
In 1470, Orstajor Black-Paws rose to leadership amongst
the Telmori packs. The shamans told the packs that he was the
“Unchained One” of Telmori prophecy. Uniting the packs under
the objective of killing every last Orlanthi south of the Creek,
Orstajor began a wave of killing that started in the east and pressed
west. People fled ahead of a wave of Telmori warriors migrating
out of the Wolf Ridges. Doom seemed certain.
‘Hauberk’ Jon was a priest of Orlanth from the Malani who
united the tribes — Cinsina, Culbrea, Maboder, Malani, and
Torkani. Leading by example, he inspired others to fight back
against the werewolves, becoming war-leader for the tribes in 1472.
In 1474, Jon seized the moment and led a daring band deep into
Telmori territory to kill Orstajor Black-Paws and his household.
After that, the wolfmen fought internally for leadership, blunting
their threat to the Orlanthi tribes. Jon was unable to press home
his advantage as his coalition suffered heavy losses in the fighting.

THE CINSINA KING’S LIST
• Cinsin the Wolfskinner: 1463-1467; first king of the
Cinsina. The people survived due to his leadership.
• Alebard Longshanks: 1468-1472; first king from the
Dolutha.

58

• Gyffun Druggarson: 1472-1474; a Drutorae clansman he
took the tribe into the ‘Hauberk’ Jon’s confederation against
the Telmori. Telmori warriors captured and tortured him to
death in the fighting that followed.
• Branbrig Errolsson: 1474-1478; of the Underwillow clan,
he refused to fight with ‘Hauberk’ Jon.
• Tarkal Gyffunson: 1478-1500; from the Dolutha clan he led
the tribe into the Jonstown Confederation. He was king when
Sartar founded Boldhome and became King of Dragon Pass.
• Koschei the Laggard: 1500-1507; from the Frithan clan, he
was king when Foul King Brangbane was ousted and fled to
the Woods of the Dead.
• Enent Storm-Wise: 1508-1511; of the Underwillow clan,
he once owned one of Sartar’s Brass Mules.
• Orlmakt Stout-Hearted: 1511-1518; a Frithan clansman,
he was brave but not overly bright.
• Hiord the Sharp: 1519-1523; from the Red Cow, during
his reign the Kingdom of Sartar began.
• Amald No-Bull: 1524-1530; from the Red Cow, he hated
liars and oath-breakers.
• Jarstak the Lame: 1531-38; from the Dolutha. Because of
his affliction his wit was his weapon not the sword.
• Saronil Gustandson: 1538-1545; a Frithan, Saronil
pursued the old conflict with the Culbrea over many years,
which threatened the confederation. In 1543, the Two-Pine
chieftain, Drondyr Quickblade saved Saronil from death

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 4

while fighting beside the Prince against the Dinacoli at the
Battle of the Donalf Flats. That ended the Culbrea and
Cinsina feud and the Dinacoli paid Royal Tribute to the
Jonstown Confederation afterwards.
• Rostarlor Well-Advised: 1545-1551; from the
Underwillow, he surrounded himself with worshippers of
Lhankor Mhy as advisors — the Council of Gray Sages.
• Faran Flask-Beard: 1551-1555; from the Red Cow, he led a
disastrous war against the Dinacoli.
• Janerra the Learned: 1556-1559; from the Underwillow,
Janerra was the first Queen of the Cinsina. Hers were the
years of war against the evil Empire.
• Ormasal Tooth-Wind: 1560-1569; from the Dolutha,
Ormasal negotiated the royal road from Jonstown to Isle
Dangerous with Prince Jarosar.
• Urika the Beautiful: 1570-1573; from the Underwillow,
Urika fell helping King Tarkalor defend the kingdom from
the Empire.
• Olend the Slim: 1574-1575; from the Dolutha, he had the
shortest reign of any king. He died in the Grazelands.
• Kangharl Moon-Hater: 1575-1579; from the Red Cow, he
led people to fight in Tarsh.
• Borngold the Upright: 1580-1583; from the Frithan clan,
he led the tribe at Grizzly Peak.
• Kevessa Red-Lip: 1584-1589; an Underwillow queen and
granddaughter of Janerra the Learned.
• Dangmar the Red: 1590-1594; from the Frithan clan, he
fought with the Culbrea.
• Gustand Harvarsson: 1595 — 1602; from the Red
Cow clan, he stood and died beside his lord Salinarg at
Boldhome.
• Garralor Hendriksson: 1603-1613; he hailed from
the Dolutha clan and sought to control the Jonstown
Confederation at the expense of the Culbrea troublemakers. He co-operated with the Lunars and re-instituted the
Council of Gray Sages.
• Ivartha the Skinner: 1613-present; she fought in the war
against the Telmori alongside Jomes Hostralos and became
queen when Orlanth was banned.

SARTAR
Sartar came to Dragon Pass in 1470. Like Colymar, Sartar was a
thane from the Orshanti clan of the Hendriki tribe in Heortland.
Sartar knew secret Motion Rune Magic that gave him powers of
growth and change. He altered the face of history and the land,
as well as more mundane aspects of life. He was unusual for he
refused to fight and, even when challenged, never raised weapon
or magic against another person. This is not to say that others
did not kill for him.
‘Hauberk’ Jon was busy trying to rebuild his coalition when
Sartar approached him in 1480 and offered to make peace with
the Telmori. In return he offered to show Jon and the tribes how
to make a city afterwards.
Sartar went secretly among the Telmori, entering their sacred
ceremonies. The Telmori threatened to kill him for his violating
their rituals. Sartar told them he came to offer friendship and

offered his powers of transformation in return. The Telmori
asked Sartar to resurrect their king. As was his way, he gave them
something else, a gift that would transform them. Sartar produced
a new king for them. No one had seen Ostling Four-wolf before,
but there was no doubt he was a Telmori. No one could ever have
more than one wolf brother, but Ostling had four. Ostling passed
the leadership tests and so ruled the Telmori. From that time, the
tribe was loyal to the Princes of the Sartar dynasty.
In 1482, the tribes agreed to implement Sartar’s plan to make
a city. The Cinsina, Culbrea, Maboder, Malani, and Torkani tribes
took part. Sartar established a confederation among them — governed by a City Ring — that allowed people from different tribes
to work together. ‘Hauberk’ Jon was the first mayor, whose job
was to represent the town’s residents on the City Ring. Afterwards
he became the wyter for the city that bore his name — Jonstown.

THE LUNAR EMPIRE
THE FALL OF THE KINGDOM OF SARTAR
The kingdom of Sartar was a thorn in the Red Emperor’s side.
King Tarkalor of Sartar supported the Tarsh Exiles, rebels who
struggled against the Lunar dynasty on the Tarshite throne.
Tarkalor died in the defeat of the Exiles by the Lunar Empire
at the Battle of Grizzly Peak in 1582. His son, Prince Terasarin
marched to the aid of the people of the Far Place when Lunar
soldiers besieged Alda-Chur. Many Cinsina joined Prince Terasarin
in liberating that city from the Lunar Empire. They cheered
when one of his sons married a woman chieftain of the Tovtaros
tribe, joining the tribes of the Far Place to Sartar. The Dinacoli
joined the Jonstown Confederation, no longer in tribute but as
a partner, and the Cinsina’s northern neighbors became part of
the kingdom of Sartar. Prince Terasarin began a new road, north
from Isle Dangerous to Alda-Chur.
The Empire could not ignore this. In 1602, they invaded
Sartar. King Gustand Harvarsson led Cinsina warriors in support
of Prince Salinarg and his Household of Death. King Gustand
died alongside his Prince in the final battle at Boldhome and there
were many Cinsina widows that year.

THE MABODER
When the Empire invaded Sartar, King Kathelranda withheld the
Maboder warband from the defense of Sartar. The victorious Empire
rewarded Kathelranda well. The Lunar governor granted his tribe
favorable trade and tax status and Kathelranda was frequently at
the governor’s side in Boldhome. Encouraged by the Empire, the
Maboder demanded tribute from their neighbors. They called it
the ‘Wolf Tax’ and justified the payment from their neighbors
by being the ‘fence of swords against the Telmori.’ They had few
friends left in the Jonstown Confederation by 1605.
In 1606, King Kathelranda began the colonization of Torkan’s
Vale, gathering warriors from across the tribes to help him cross
the Dogbone Hills. The colonization of Torkan’s Vale broke
Sartar’s agreement.
Settling new land was not enough for Kathelranda — he intended
to wipe out the Telmori. Confident of Lunar backing, he launched
an expedition into the Wolf Ridges. In an event known as the Black
Moon Massacre for its timing, Kathelranda’s warband fell upon

The Wolfslayers

59

THE MOURNING OF THE MABODH
Gold eyes gleaming, and red jaws ravened,
Wolfmen and gray wolves, baying in battle,
With horrid howls, surrounding Stonegate.
Blood-thirsty beasts, Moon-lit the monsters,
Shield-boards they splintered, helmets hewed,
Mail-shirts mauled, good spears shattered.
Sword-man and shepherd, and carl and cottar,
Bravely and bold, in their desperate defiance,
They fought to thwart, the savage slaughter.
Bent and broken blades, for bronze was blunted,
Bitter now the battle, as the war-wall weakened,
Neither edge nor point, their pelts could pierce.
Scarlet splashed, the wolf-skinned unwounded,
Slew the sworn-men, and Kathelranda King,
Grim and greedily, set feasting on the fallen.
Wretched and weeping, the ill-fated followers,
Few those who fled then, woeful and weary,
Serve now as slaves, land and kin lamenting.

Telmori camps. Finding many of them undefended they set about
killing old men, women, and children. Their intent was to wipe out
the Telmori at their weakest moment. It failed because the warriors
were away at a council of the packs to discuss the Maboder invasion
of Torkan’s Vale. The meeting had broken up in disharmony with
the packs unable to agree a war leader. When the warriors returned
they mourned their dead and swore vengeance. The drums along
the Wolf Ridges called for war and the now outraged Telmori packs
agreed to a war leader in Kostajor Wolf-Champion.
In the winter of 1606, the Telmori fell upon the Maboder villages.
They killed every man, woman, and child they could find. Finally,
they reached Stonegate. Rebels against the Empire, led by Dunorl
Brandgorsson, helped the Telmori to capture Stonegate. Dunorl
hoped to send a message to other tribes who might cooperate with
the Empire. Betraying Stonegate’s defenders they opened the gates
to the Telmori who then took their bloody revenge for the Black
Moon Massacre. The entire Maboder leadership was wiped out.
The Maboder survivors fled to nearby clans, many of whom
rebuffed their former enemies. Tattered columns of refugees entered
Jonstown and Boldhome to beg comfort from the Provincial
Church’s missions. They appealed to the Lunar governor during
the Sacred Time rites of 1606, invoking their ancestors, and
imploring vengeance.

THE WOLF HUNT
In 1607, the Lunar Army moved to avenge them.
The tribes of the Jonstown Confederation were eager to help, and
defeat their old enemy the Telmori. King Garralor Hendriksson saw
an opportunity to control the Jonstown City Ring at the expense

60

of the Culbrea — who the Lunars regarded as troublemakers. He
supported the Lunars and persuaded the Cinsina to march under
the Lunar banner.
Jomes Hostralos, a career officer originally from Aggar, had
experience fighting the Telmori in his own land. Before the
destruction of the Maboder, he had made friends among the
tribes who were agitating for war on the Telmori. His regiment,
the Biliz Highlanders, fight as peltasts — light troops well suited
to fighting this kind of guerrilla war. He captured two of the
Helkos Brothers and executed one of them to prove his word.
The war ended when Jomes killed the wolf brother of Kostajor
Wolf-Champion, king of the Telmori.
The Lunar governor gave Jomes the former Maboder lands
as his grant. The Maboder survivors who returned to their lands
did so as slaves to work the lands of the Lunar veterans who now
held the land.

STARBROW’S REBELLION
In 1611, the Lunar governor raised taxes and banned the worship
of Orlanth among the tribes.
Many tribes resisted the prohibition on worshipping Orlanth.
When Lunar troops tried to raze the temple on the Hill of Orlanth
Victorious, in 1613, those tribes attacked and destroyed the Lunar
column. The leaders of this rebellion were Kallyr Starbrow, queen
of the Kheldon tribe, Hofstaring Treeleaper, king of the Culbrea
tribe, and Kallai Rockbuster, king of the Colymar tribe. Kallyr
lit the flame of Sartar, proving her right to inherit the throne.
Garralor Hendriksson refused to join them. He believed that
Kallyr had forged alliances with the Telmori and his spies reported
that Telmori had been involved in the destruction of the Lunar
expeditionary force at the Hill of Orlanth. Believing Kallyr would
betray the people to the Telmori, if it aided her quest for the throne
of Sartar, he refused to raise the Cinsina. Instead he stood behind
the new heir to the throne, Temertain, who had been found in
the Holy Country. Garralor was instrumental in persuading the
Gray Sages to support the ‘Philosopher King.’
Still some Cinsina warriors joined for the chance to fight against
the Empire. The rebellion failed and its leaders were forced into exile.
The Lunars trapped Hofstaring Treeleaper in Hell and placed a puppet
ruler with a weak claim, Prince Temertain, on the Sartarite throne.
Brofin the Beardless, the Dolutha chieftain, felt that his kinsman Garralor had betrayed the kingdom of Sartar. He exiled
himself, and with his companions ambushed Garralor when the
king’s household entered Dangerford. The priests still say that the
Dolutha are cursed for that.

THE STRONG PEACE
Following Starbrow’s Rebellion, the Empire punished tribes and
clans who would not renounce the leadership of Orlanth’s worshippers. The Cinsina reacted by replacing Garralor Hendriksson
as king with Ivartha the Skinner. She was a noted wolf-killer who
was acceptable to the Empire because she had fought alongside
King Kathelranda when he tried to settle Torkan’s Vale, and Jomes
when he took vengeance for the Maboder upon the Telmori and
worshipped Vinga not Orlanth.
With the transfer of Culbrea clans the Cinsina became the
strongest tribe of the Jonstown Confederation. Queen Ivartha’s

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 4

policy has been to aid the clans in resisting Dinacoli
and Culbrea demands for tribute — and has won the
clans’ support for being strong against the old enemy.
But Queen Ivartha’s attention has always been
to the east and the Telmori, against whom she is
ever vigilant.

THE TRIBAL WYTER
BLUE GHOST gt
When Cinsin the Wolfskinner formed the tribe,
the lesser god who answered Cinsin’s call was
Orlkarnth Blackbeard. Orlkarnth was the soul of
a gruff Vingkotling warrior who had taken part
in the Sword and Helm war and died in the Last
Royal Betrayal. He helped to rally the clans, and
weld them together to defend their homes. Later
when the Telmori packs ate whole clans, Orlkarnth
helped the people defend themselves.
Orlkarnth knows war, desperate struggles for
survival and re-grouping in the face of overwhelming
odds. He knows less about peace, reconciliation, and
turning the other cheek. His ‘ghostly’ form appears
as a translucent Orlanthi warrior, with a bluish
shimmer, armed and armored for war.
Everyone in the tribe offers the first toast when
drinking to ‘the blue ghost’ and pours a libation
on the floor.

mostly saying ‘no.’ Chieftains and thanes from across
the Cinsina curse ‘Bloody Vastyr’ for his obduracy.
Leikorl the Shadow’s methods are questionable but
he is effective and Ivartha cares more about killing
Telmori than honor.
Many of the Wolfskinners are exiles from their
own clans, sent away to allow tempers in a blood
feud to cool. They are killers, hard men who have
taken life before, and would find it easy to do so
again if their queen required it.
The queen also has two-dozen councilors. Camille
the Quick is Ivartha’s spy mistress. The Brave Tribe
says that word reaches Camille the Quick when
Jomes stubs a toe, but for now, she focuses her
energies and attentions on news from the Telmori
and not the Empire.
Finally, the queen also maintains a bonded
trickster, Janara the Swarthy, as part of her household, strengthening the tribe’s magic. Janara often
causes outrage among the household. As with all
tricksters, most of her schemes end up backfiring.
Queen Ivartha claims to find some wisdom in
Janara’s ribaldry and some inspiration in her want
of care for how others regard her. Still Janara will
betray Ivartha, one day…
Apart from restrictions of establishment or tradition, members of the household do not have to come
from the clans of the tribe. To attract the renowned
men and women into service is a mark of greatness.
In addition, they are above clan loyalties.

IMPORTANT PEOPLE QUEEN OF THE CINSINA:
IVARTHA THE SKINNER gsW
OF THE CINSINA
Ivartha the Skinner is the warrior-queen of the
QUEEN IVARTHA
AND HER HOUSEHOLD
Queen Ivartha the Skinner is a tall and imposing
woman with flame red-hair, her beauty marred by
three livid scars running from her right eye to her
chin, the reminder of a fight with the Telmori.
Softly spoken, Ivartha’s leadership is quiet and
understated, not bold and brash. Her strength
is in listening. Many have mistaken the queen’s
quietness for timidity, to their own cost. In battle,
Ivartha is capable and not content to let others do
her fighting for her.
Three groups comprise the Queen’s Household.
At any time, the queen supports thirty to forty thanes
who form her bodyguard and tribal warband — the
Wolfskinners. Vastyr Bloody-Shirt is sworn to
protect Ivartha; she saved his life during the failed
attempt to settle Torkan’s Vale. He is the member of
the household most often met by outsiders; his job
is to control access to the queen, a job he fulfills by

Cinsina tribe.
Ivartha’s family was savaged in a Telmori raid
when she was a young girl. She killed and skinned
her first wolf in the year of her initiation to Vinga.
Ivartha was exiled from the Red Cow for her
part in the feud with the Split Waters clan of the
Maboder over the burning of Eoric’s Stead. Whilst
in exile, she was part of the attempt led by King
Kathelranda of the Maboder to colonize Torkan’s
Vale with a disparate band of outlaws, bandits, and
adventurers. There she first showed the leadership that
marked her out for greatness; there she also learned
her limits. She bears the scars of a werewolf ’s claws
raked in three jagged lines across her face, earned
when the Telmori overran the Maboder, whose king
she served. She hates the Telmori for her losses, the
itching of her scar a constant reminder of her hatred.
The failure there still drives her.
She is a friend to Jomes Hostralos, a bond they
forged in the Wolf Hunt. That bond helped her rise
to become queen. The Empire wanted someone
who they could work with, and Jomes was willing
to vouch for her. Ivartha keeps it secret, but Lunar

The Wolfslayers

IRON AND THE
CINSINA
The Cinsina need iron
(or other runic metals)
to fight the Telmori
as bronze weapons
slip harmlessly from a
werewolf ’s hide. The
Cinsina willingly trade
for these items whenever
they can. The main
source for iron weapons
in Dragon Pass is the
dwarves of Dwarf Mine.
Tarkal Gyffunson
established the Cold
Hard Iron Tribute with
the Dwarf of Dwarf
Mine. He traded food,
service, or other stranger
gifts in return for iron
from the dwarves. The
quantities were always
small — a dozen
spearheads, or a pair of
daggers, or a sword.
Since then the dwarves
have approached the
Cinsina King, according
to some unknown
‘work schedule’ of their
devising to offer the
Cold Hard Iron Tribute.
The price is often high
or difficult to collect,
such as the time they
demanded a dozen
beakers of scorpion man
venom, but the Cinsina
need the iron to fight the
Telmori so it is always
accepted. The dwarves
imply that failure to
accept the ‘contract’
when offered might
result in it ending.
Because of this deal the
Cinsina thanes have
more iron weapons
than any other tribe in
Dragon Pass.

61

THE CINSINA HOUSEHOLD
From left to right: Ivartha the Skinner, Vastyr Bloody-shirt, Leikorl the Shadow, Camille the Quick, Janara the Swarthy

silver helped her buy the support she needed to win her first
election and a Lunar promise of lower taxes.
Once elected, she proved anything but the Empire’s puppet.
She did not despise the Lunars, but did reject the dishonor of the
Occupation, the prohibition of the worship of Orlanth, and the
collaboration of leaders like Ivar Quickstep. Forced to dance with
the Empire she keeps the tribe out of the rebellion and prosperous
while the Culbrea suffer. Moreover, she always watches the tribe’s
true enemies: the Telmori.
Ivartha has an on-off love affair with Kallai Hairy-Breeks on
the Cinsina Ring, but she has known many lovers.
Ivartha the Skinner gsW
Clan: Red Cow
Faction: Wolfskinners
Age: 45
Keywords: Warrior-Queen
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth — Vinga sub-cult g
Look: Scarred face, silver torc, unbound red hair,
wolfskin cloak

HOUSECARL:
VASTYR BLOODY-SHIRT gsj
Vastyr is the victor of ten bloody duels; a former Greenhaft thane,
he left his clan to earn coin with his sword, fighting in other men’s

62

feuds and wars. He joined Ivartha’s attempt to carve out a new
clan in Torkan’s Vale. After he lost his first duel, when Ivartha’s
cousin Ortossi Ketilsson beat him to within an inch of his life, the
two became lovers and friends. Ivartha helped nurse his wounds,
but the love affair has long since ended; Vastyr still hungers for a
re-match with both Ivartha and her young cousin.
Vastyr always strikes from advantage or by trickery when he
can, never believing in an even fight. Luck and a sixth sense for
danger have kept him alive. Vastyr is phlegmatic about his lot in
life. Battle-scars ruin his face; only a blind woman would find
him attractive. His loneliness for a woman’s touch makes him one
of the most likely sources of betrayal within Ivartha’s household.
Sureela Far-Traveled exploits Vastyr’s weakness and disguised as a
Jonstown whore has ensnared his heart. For now she simply uses
her disguise to extract information from Vastyr, but she might try
to turn him against his former lover, if needed.
A grim and unsmiling man, Vastyr sees danger at every
crossroads, and assassins at every door, an instinct that has kept
those he guards alive. Others find his paranoia exasperating,
usually because he prevents access to the queen. Ivartha finds
his devotion to his job useful; it helps reduce the number of
visitors she has to endure.
Vastyr and Orngerin Thundercape, a kinsman from the
Greenhaft, are rivals to replace Jost Bronze-Side as leader of the
clan. Vastyr would have Ivartha’s support — for he would keep
the clan in the Cinsina.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 4

SPY:
CAMILLE THE QUICK eyW

Vastyr Bloody-Shirt gsj
Clan: Greenhaft
Faction: Wolfskinners
Age: 35
Keywords: Mercenary
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth s
Look: No beard, ruined face, shaved head, short
and stocky

HOUSECARL:
LEIKORL THE SHADOW gst
A grim reputation follows Leikorl the Shadow, tales of his part in
blood feuds and troll-fights that led to his exile from the Torkani.
Keen sighted and with a sharp sense of smell, Leikorl usually
scouts ahead, slipping easily through the shadows. With silent
footsteps and black-feather fletched arrows, he has taken many
of his enemies without even a cry.
Ivartha attracted him to her service with the promise of testing
his skills against the Telmori. He fought alongside her as a young
warrior during the attempt to settle in Torkan’s Vale. He was
captured when the settlement fell to the Telmori. Most believed
him dead. He learned to hate the wolfmen in captivity, after Jogar
tortured many of his companions. Leikorl survived but not before
being humiliated; he betrayed his companions and was nearly
driven mad. He never talks about his time in captivity, for shame
at his own actions to stay alive.
Leikorl has spent a lot of time scouting Torkan’s Vale and the
Wolf Ridges for the queen. To the Telmori he is a figure of fear
and hatred, taking their kinfolk in the dark of the forest. He killed
Sihala Sweet-Laugh, one of the wives of Black-Paws Helkos and
still wears her wolf-pelt as a cloak. Her nephew, Ostling SpottedFur is the Telmori hostage to the Cinsina — Leikorl makes sure
to wear the pelt whenever he meets Ostling.
The Telmori shaman Jogar has offered great rewards for the
brave who brings him Leikorl’s head.
Leikorl has a reputation for skulking in the shadows. Many in
the clans distrust Leikorl, portraying him as an assassin. Leikorl
plays up to that image and is brutal and merciless, knowing it
enhances his reputation.
Leikorl the Shadow gst
Clan: Siganti (Torkani)
Faction: Wolfskinners
Age: 32
Keywords: Mercenary
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth s
Look: Beady eyes, clean-shaven, narrow face, thin;
missing part of his scalp

Camille is from a poor Jonstown family. Her father, Gyffun
Cheapshoes, made many sacrifices to pay for her apprenticeship
at the Jonstown Library.
Camille worked hard to meet her parents’ expectations, but
she disliked the rarefied and scholarly atmosphere. Instead, she
turned her skills to trafficking information. She has developed a
network of contacts within the Jonstown Trade Ring and among
the Dinacoli and Culbrea tribes. Whispers reach Camille even
from Jomes’ household and the camps of the Telmori.
Camille has turned many of the techniques of the sage to
espionage, committing extensive notes from her spies’ reports into
volumes she can later consult. These are written in her own cipher,
to prevent exposure of her informants. Camille uses Lhankor Mhy’s
magic to ferret out hidden knowledge, check the truth of what
she is told, and interrogate the queen’s enemies.
Camille is apt at suborning people with gold or blackmail. She
seems to have an uncanny ability to ferret out weaknesses that can
be exploited to her advantage.

THE QUEEN’S PROGRESS
Orlanthi Law prescribes that: “A King can step into any
household of his subjects, and stay for a Day-feed. He
is always welcome, with his household, in the home of
any noble or priest. He is the guest of his clan council.”
Orlanthi custom simplifies this to allow the clan to pay
taxes to support the king and his household wherever
he is.
Of course neither law nor custom speak adequately on
this size of a household and everyone knows the story of
Unhappy King Derik who had to dismiss his household
one-by-one to be accommodated by his increasingly
fractious subjects until, in the end, only his trickster
accompanied him.
In most tribes the king has a year round seat, such as
the Culbrea king at Fox Hollow, but among the Cinsina,
tradition, born from years living in hiding from the Telmori,
dictates that the king travel from clan to clan with their
household. Holy Days and markets are the times that
most people look to see or meet with the Queen as these
are the times they can expect her household to arrive in
their clan lands.
The itinerary of the king’s progress varies from yearto-year; the god-talkers performing divinations during
the Sacred Time to determine at which Holy Days the
king will be present with which clans.
The bad blood between Queen Ivartha and Ivar
Quickstep, the Dolutha chieftain, makes any stopover
in Dolutha territory tense, and Ivartha tends to stay at
Red Cow when her itinerary takes her to the Dolutha,
remaining on the Dolutha territory only long enough to
perform the requirements of office. The Dolutha find this
intensely insulting; Ivartha means them to.

The Wolfslayers

63

Camille the Quick eyW
Clan: Greenhaft
Faction: Wolfskinners
Age: 39
Keywords: Spymaster
Magic: Initiate of Lhankor Mhy y
Look: Guttersnipe accent, heavy gold chains and earrings; pretty face; a fake beard consisting of two gold
chains running to nose piercings, with a copper screen
of chains hanging from it

TRICKSTER:
JANARA THE SWARTHY eix
Attractive enough to cause jealousy, Janara has never shied
from using her beauty to seduce men and women, though she
often ruins her looks by strolling around like an over-painted
Jonstown whore.
Disinterested in love, Janara’s seductions have always been
about gain from another over-elaborate plan. Born in the Jonstown
backstreets, Janara has survived as a con-artist, tricking her way
into wealth and then losing it all again, when her bad luck dogged
her and the scheme backfired.
Touched by the Trickster, Janara’s attempts to disrupt the city
would have had her hanged if Queen Ivartha had not bonded her.
For Janara, Ivartha’s household is just a way to play her games
in the ‘big time’ amongst kings, queens, and the fate of nations.
Her greatest game so far has been the Lunar Empire, and Janara
feels that her actions fooled the Empire into trusting the queen.
Janara hates Camille regarding her as an amateur in a world of
deception and illusion that is her territory. She tries to embarrass
her by feeding her false information, but the spymistress has seen
through it all.
Janara the Swarthy eix

HOSTAGE:
OSTLING SPOTTED-FUR gtB
The son of Black-Paws Hostralos, grandson of Kostajor WolfChampion, and great-great grandson of Sartar, Ostling chafes at
his role as Queen Ivartha’s ill kept dog. Yet Ostling is a man of
honor, who keeps Kostajor Wolf-Champion’s word. He detests
Leikorl the Shadow, who killed his aunt and stepmother, Sihala
Sweet-Laugh. He is determined to kill him in revenge. He is loyal
to his grandfather’s kin — the House of Sartar.
He has few friends here, he knows their hatred for him, though
Camille the Quick loves his stories of his homeland, and he has developed a taste for the drunken companionship of Vastyr Bloody-Shirt.
Loyal to his people, Ostling accepts his fate, but longs for
revenge. Ostling has kept his eyes and ears open, learning the
ways of his enemies, and their treacherous plans. He knows the
contempt they hold his people in, and that there will never be peace.
He has nothing but contempt for their soft ways, cutting
Grandmother Earth with their plows, penning the Lady of the Wilds’
animals behind fences. He sees their spirits as dead, worn out by care.
Ostling often raises his ancestry, noting that: “The blood of the
House of Sartar runs in my veins.” He is dismayed by what he believes
the kingdom has become now Prince Temertain is on the throne.
Ostling tries to spend his time learning the ways his enemy
fights so that he can better defeat them in battle. He has learnt
how the Orlanthi fight in the shield wall, the riddle of the sword,
and the use of cavalry. He knows they spy on him, but he spies
on them too.
Ostling Spotted-Fur gtB
Clan: Far Runners (Telmori)
Faction: Telmori

Family: Unknown (Illegitimate)

Age: 28

Faction: Who Knows?

Keywords: Telmori Brave

Age: 28

Magic: Telmor Spirit Society B

Keywords: Con-Artist

Look: Buckskin and rawhide clothing, high cheekbones, long loose hair, moccasins

Magic: Bonded Trickster i
Look: Beautiful, dark skinned, thickly applied
cosmetics

THE QUEEN’S RING
THE CINSINA RING

THE HOSTAGES
The Queen’s household includes a number of hostages, whose
life is forfeit should an alliance or treaty be broken. The Orlanthi
practice of exchanging hostages is ancient and respected as a way
to enforce treaty obligations following a military victory.
Queen Ivartha counts Telmori braves among her household, a
condition of the settlement agreed by Jomes following the Wolf
Hunt in 1607.

64

The hostages travel with the queen, for she needs them close
to hand to dissuade the Telmori from believing that they could
violate the treaty and still free them. Provided the Telmori meet
their treaty obligations they are protected by Orlanthi hospitality.

Chalana Arroy: Thanelda Copper-Tongue
Elmal: Swendar Battle-Brother
Ernalda: Devina the Bountiful
Humakt: Karos Crow-Shadow
Issaries: Kalf Blinked-Twice
Kero Fin: Irnara Cat-Witch
Orlanth Thunderous: Verlain Never-Doubt
Urox: Toltar Gors-Born
Voria: Ereltha Herd-Healer

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 4

The ring is the governing body of the Cinsina. The queen leads,
but the ring advises. The ring represents the voice of the people,
the clans, and the cults. Toltar Gors-Born is an Uroxi Bull Priest,
who knows Ivartha from the attempt to settle Wolf Stand. His
poor manners and behavior upset many members of the ring but
his presence strengthens their magic. Ivartha values him as a wolffoe despite his behavior. Although the Empire hunts Storm Bulls,
Toltar continues to make his way to council meetings, impressing
Ivartha with his dependability and resourcefulness. Karos CrowShadow and Irnara Cat-Witch, the blind old ‘grandmother’ of the
tribe, support Queen Ivartha’s struggle against the Telmori. They
remember the destruction of the Maboder and the Wolf Hunt,
and the tales of the long struggle against the wolfmen. They do
not intend to let Ivartha forget, or the wolfmen to live in peace.
Common folk call Toltar, Karos and Irnara the ‘Grim Three’ and
the frightening presence of these three councilors unsettles many
an opponent.
Thanelda Copper-Tongue is the only one who seems to be
able to calm Toltar. A priestess from the Chalana Arroy temple in
Jonstown, Thanelda is the voice of peace and compromise on the
ring, suggesting negotiation and dialog. Ivartha tries to be polite
and even listens to her on negotiation with the Empire, but has
little time for talk of peace with the wolfmen.
Verlain Never-Doubt and Devina the Bountiful of the Red
Cow lead the Isolationists. Broddi Strong-Kin championed their
appointment, rejecting Ivartha’s candidates, who supported for calls
for war with the Telmori, to pursue a path of isolation from the
Hero Wars. Like many in their clan, these two care about cattle and

meadows above all else. Ivartha tries to turn Verlain and Devina
to her cause but although they worry about the threat from the
Culbrea and their demands for the Lorthing Vale tribute, she has
not managed to rouse them to the threat posed by the wolfmen.
Kallai Hairy-Breeks, an adventurer, who spent time in Pavis,
leads the Free Sartar supporters on the ring. Kallai tries hard to
push everyone away from local disputes, such as struggles with the
Culbrea tribe and the Telmori to focus everyone on the dangers
posed by the Lunar Empire. Unlike Kalf, he is able to influence
Ivartha, having been her on-off lover for a number of years. If
Queen Ivartha acts for the rebellion, Kallai’s pillow talk is more
than likely the cause than Kalf ’s rallying cries.
Kalf Blinked-Twice supports Kallai. A Goldentongue merchant
his caravan wanders throughout Cinsina territory and beyond,
but he is always at the tribal market, hawking wares from some
exotic locale in return for Cinsina goods that he will trade on. He
uses his travel as an excuse to spy for the rebellion, and is quick
to exhort the tribe to fulfill their obligations to Sartar by resisting
the Occupation.
If Ivartha dislikes anyone on her ring though, it is Swendar
Battle-Brother, whom she regards as Ivar Quickstep’s stooge.
Swendar only wants the best for his clan. He has made common
cause with Verlain and Devina, who have no desire for civil war.
He dislikes the Telmori as much as Ivartha. He hopes to trade
support for her ambitions in Torkan’s Vale for her leaving the
Dolutha in peace. Swendar dislikes the Righteous Wind faction,
especially Kalf, because he fears they are the most likely to push
Ivartha to interfere.

THE QUEEN’S RING
From left to right: Toltar Gors-Born, Kallai Hairy-Breeks, Verlain Never-Doubt

The Wolfslayers

65

Ereltha Herd-Healer is a Goodhaven traditionalist who keeps
to the old ways and despises those who love of the Empire. Ereltha
makes common cause with Kallai, trying to persuade Ivartha to
see the struggle against the Empire as the priority for the Cinsina.

UROX:
TOLTAR GORS-BORN gVj
Originally, a Pol-Joni tribesman, Toltar is a foul-smelling, beer-swilling, braggart of a man rightfully thrown out of every decent
village in Sartar.
A big, fat man, he is still a fearsome warrior. He knows no fear,
and little restraint. He loves to drink, wench, and laugh at crude
slapstick or misfortune.
He is a Bull Priest and leads a band of a dozen Bullmen,
called the Bad Boys. They are almost as bad as Toltar and nearly
everyone fears their visits. They bully, drink, and sleep their way
around. Were it not for the protection they offer against Chaos,
few would want them around.
Queen Ivartha loves him for the support he offers against the
Telmori — who Toltar despises as Chaos. His initiation scars itch
in the presence of the wolfmen.
With a raging temper, and quick judgment he is best not
crossed. Intensely loyal to his battle-companions he is a welcome ally.
Toltar has a surprising love of music, and his band knows
that all musicians that they encounter fall under his protection.
Toltar loves to hear them play and generously rewards those who
entertain him.

ORLANTH ADVENTUROUS:
KALLAI HAIRY-BREEKS gst
An Underwillow thane, Kallai Hairy-Breeks has been in exile for
many years for killing a Malani tribesman in a blood feud. He
spent many years adventuring in Pavis, returning to Sartar to aid
the rebellion. Kallai tries to persuade Ivartha to stir the Cinsina
to rebel against the Empire.
He returned to his clan once his exile was done but no one
wanted to upset the Malani again, so Ivartha the Skinner, his lover,
found him a role on the tribal ring, for which Kallai was grateful.
He has never been able to get over his clan’s ingratitude.
Kallai’s face is burnt on one side, from a Dinacoli raid on his
village during his childhood. He hates the Dinacoli with a passion
and regards them as traitors to the tribe. He urges raids across the
Creek and sponsors them when he can.
A Wind Lord of Orlanth, Kallai wanders incessantly, within
and without Cinsina lands, exploring, bedding women, raiding,
and looking for adventure. Many a young man has been led away
by Kallai from his clan to loot the Big Rubble, join Joh Mith’s
caravan to Balazar, raid the Tusk Riders of the Stinking Forest, or
kill Chaos in Snakepipe Hollow.
Kallai Hairy-Breeks gst
Clan: Underwillow
Faction: Righteous Wind
Age: 33
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Devotee of Orlanth s

Toltar Gors-Born gVj

Look: Burn scars on left-side of face, gravelly-voiced,
llama-hide trousers

Clan: Ansil (Pol-Joni)
Faction: Wolfskinners
Age: 38

ORLANTH THUNDEROUS:
VERLAIN NEVER-DOUBT gxB

Keywords: Mercenary

Verlain Never-Doubt is the son of Broddi Strong-Kin. A holy man
of Orlanth, he has never cut or bound his hair or beard, which
hang to his waist. He is naked apart from a cloak; by exposing his
skin to the air he better shows his devotion to Orlanth.

Magic: Devotee of Urox V
Look: Big, fat, foul smelling, loud

INDEX OF CINSINA NPCS

66

Name

Position

Clan

Faction

Page

Ivartha the Skinner

Queen

Red Cow

Wolfskinners

61

Vastyr Bloody-Shirt

Housecarl

Greenhaft

Wolfskinners

62

Leikorl the Shadow

Housecarl

Siganti (Torkani)

Wolfskinners

63

Camille the Quick

Spymaster

Greenhaft

Wolfskinners

63

Janara the Swarthy

Trickster

Unknown

Her own

64

Ostling Spotted-Fur

Hostage

Telmori

Telmori

64

Toltar Gors-Born

Urox

Ansil (Pol-Joni)

Wolfskinners

66

Kallai Hairy-Breeks

Orlanth Adventurous

Underwillow

Free Sartar

66

Verlain Never-Doubt

Orlanth Thunderous

Red Cow

Isolationists

66

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 4

A Storm Voice and Thunder Brother, he often leads secret
worship of Orlanth Thunderous at Good Rain Hill, where his
booming voice and commanding presence single him out in the
crowd. Influenced by his father, he resists talk of joining the rebellion despite the fetters the Empire has placed on Orlanth’s cult.
He has heroquested to increase the fertility of his cows and the
seed of his bulls. He idolizes his father’s husbandry and herds of
red cows. Verlain longs to return the aurochs to Dragon Pass and
has spent years researching myths to help him do that.
He is a happy man, whose belly laugh often enlivens grim
council meetings. People warm to him, even Queen Ivartha, or his
father’s opponents in the Red Cow. He has no political ambition
himself, focused on being a holy man of Orlanth.
Verlain Never-Doubt gxB
Clan: Red Cow

BLUE BOAR FORT
The fort is set atop the only hill that rises above the Donalf Flats.
Three great earthen walls surround the hilltop. The Rain Blossom
clan can drive all their families and livestock within the walls for
shelter in time of trouble. A proud citadel crowns the fort’s eastern
side, the seat of the Dinacoli kings. So much wealth has flowed
into Dinacoli lands during the Occupation that Blue Boar Fort
has become a small town.

THE CREEK
A tributary of Creek-Stream River, also called Krikans, it is a
younger brother of Skyriver Titan. When Skyriver Titan’s life force
was draining away after Korang the Slayer stabbed him, Creek
leapt down onto the Indigo Mountains and added his power so
that Skyriver Titan would not be washed away.

DANGERFORD FORT

Faction: The Isolationists

Magic: Devotee of Orlanth g

This fort lies on the north side of the Creek at the best crossing
point along the Donalf Flats. The crossing lies at Isle Dangerous,
a famous dueling ground where people come to settle disputes.
South of the fort lies the town of Dangerford, a frequent stop for
travelers on the King’s Road.

Look: Belly laugh, blue cloak, full body suit of tattoos,
long-beard and hair, naked

DAYTIME WOODS

Age: 33
Keywords: Priest

CINSINA LANDS AND
SURROUNDS
ARFRITHA RIVER (BORANINI RIVER)
A river that flows through the Arfritha Vale, a tributary of the
Lorthing River.

AROKA LAKE
A large lake on the Donalf Flats, which feeds into the Creek,
formed from the gushing of Aroka’s blood when Orlanth killed
it. The water still has a red tint to it.

APPLE LANE
A border hamlet in Swan Vale, located in territory disputed by the
Colymar and Malani tribes, Apple Lane sits astride a frequently
used secondary road.

BATTLE VALLEY
A valley on the border of Sartar and Prax so called because the
Praxian nomads often raid here or take this route into Sartar. Many
nations have fortified Battle Valley over the years and ruined forts
litter the hillsides. One ruin is home to the Sazdorf trolls.

BERRYHALL
The heart of the Blueberry clan tula, a sacred grove which is home
to a dryad. The trailing vines that give the clan its most famous
harvest originate from this grove.

These woods earn their name because only heroes should enter
them at night, due to their proximity to the trolls of Dagori Inkarth
who often hunt here. The Asmandi clan of the Torkani lives here;
many say they are kin to the trolls.

DINOSAUR HILL
Here Maran birthed the stenogs, grazing beasts that trampled the
countryside and were famed for their extreme stupidity. The hill is
jagged and irregular, with frequent clefts lying between bare rock
shelves trampled flat by stenogs in ancient times. Tough grass and
sparse bushes cover the lower slopes. A shrine to Maran stands
here, but the presence of the Telmori keeps it untended.
The stenogs were too dim-witted to survive the Darkness,
but were reborn from this same hill during the days of the EWF.
The Cinsina hero Amald the Spine-Crusher slew a group of the
beasts dwelling here in the late fourteenth century. None have
been seen since.

DISPUTED LANDS
The Cinsina, Culbrea, Jomeslanders and Telmori dispute this
area. For now it is wild land, and all of those groups hunt here,
although someone always tries to settle it sooner or later. The
different claimants’ hunters often clash here.

DOGBONE HILLS
These hills divide the Torkani and Telmori. The northern slopes
are home to a few well-fortified Torkani villages, but for the most
part only raiding and hunting parties visit the hills.

DONALF STREAM
A tributary of the Creek in the Donalf Flats.

The Wolfslayers

67

DONALF FLATS

GEJAY HILLS OR LARNSTE HILLS

This region is a rich farming land with few hills, drained by the
Creek and its tributaries, whose clans are now all part of the
powerful Dinacoli tribe.

Wooded hills in Sartar, now home to the Lysang clan, now of
the Malani. The Underwillow clan of the Cinsina keeps to the
northern hills and lands around Larnste’s Table.

DOZALIN RIVER

GOODFARM VALE

A small seasonal river that takes snow melt from the Quivini
foothills out into the Praxian chaparral in Sea Season, where it
eventually dries up. It helps to irrigate the land close to the foothills providing lush grasses for the Pol-Joni clans who graze there.

The richest Torkani land. They settled this valley a generation after
they arrived in Torkan’s Vale, and it became the center of their tribal
lands after the Telmori werewolves pushed them from that place.

DRAGON’S EYE
Thousands of dragonewts live here, making it one of their largest
colonies in Glorantha. It is one of the few ancient strongholds of
dragonkind to survive from before the Darkness. Here lives the
Inhuman King, a true dragon incarnated in a lesser body, whose
decisions rule the dragonewts of Dragon Pass. North of the
Dragon’s Eye are the Dragonewt Wildlands, rolling heaths where
the dragonewts hunt and carry out their unfathomable rituals.

DRUM POINT
Called Drumtop, this hill was the drum of Lant Ulfar. The clans
around it can gain special Drum magic when they drum upon
it, and they do.

FORDSTONE
This small town is the center of the Blueberry clan. Many traders
come here in early Fire Season for the blueberry harvest and the
chance to trade for some.

FORLOSS HILLS
On the southern edge of Battle Valley, these hills have wooded
groves and copses in the vales, and grassy ridges. Hunters from
the Sazdorf trolls frequently stalk the Aranwyth tribe pastures.
The Telmori have become a greater menace to the herds with
each passing year.

GOODHAVEN
The Goodhaven clan of the Culbrea has grown rich from the
trade that passes through their lands between Jonstown and
Boldhome. The settlements of Goodhaven and Sunshine Inn are
regular stopping points for caravans heading to or from Boldhome
along the King’s Road, before they climb into the mountain pass
or emerge into the foothills.

GOOD RAIN HILL
Rearing two and a half thousand feet high at the southern tip of
the Indigo Mountains foothills. At the summit of the hill stands
a small lake, which freezes over every winter. Filled solely by
rainwater rather than by any underground spring, this lake is a
sacred site to Heler, and a small shrine stands on its banks. The
hill is steep in places and reaching the lake involves an arduous
climb, but it can be worth it. Collected with the proper rituals,
water from the lake can enhance Heler’s magics if sprinkled on
the ground within a week.

GREENHAFT
This village is the center of the Greenhaft clan of the Cinsina tribe.

HERONGREEN
The Dinacoli settled the ancient Vingkotling fort during the
Resettlement. Herongreen controls the road between Sartar and
the Far Place and is a rich source of income to the Dinacoli.

FOX HOLLOW

HORSE REST

The King’s Hall for the Culbrea tribe. Ranulf Turn-Tail is the
current king.

This large village is the center of the Two-Pine clan. Some think
that the settlement gets its name for being a stopping point for
travelers going from Jonstown to Jarolar Keep, but the village
actually gets its name from being where the Two-Pine mercenaries
rest over the winter.

GEO’S CREEK INN
Situated at the Dangerford crossing of the Creek, in recent years,
it has lost out to the Two Fisted Inn in popularity, because of its
lack of welcome for Lunar travelers. It has become the center of
opposition to Ivar Quickstep, the Dolutha chieftain.

GEO’S RIDGE INN
Located on the King’s Road where the foothills of the Brambleberry
Hills and Cherry Ridge give way to the Quivin Mountains. Because
of the cold weather most of the inn is buried in the ground of
the ridge, sunk below the surface, apart from a three courtyards
permitting light into the building, around which the rooms are
spaced. The walls, floors, and furniture in the rooms are made
of stone. The roofs are of turf. The rooms even have a primitive
drainage system so that visitors do not have to step out into the cold.

68

JALDON’S REST
The Grave of Jaldon Goldentooth; Derik Pol-Joni ambushed and
killed the Praxian hero’s army along Waha’s Trail.

JAROLAR KEEP
Saronil built the Keep of Sarotar, a broch, and his son Jarolar
built the walls. The Lorthing clan of the Culbrea holds the fort.

JOMESLAND
Jomes Hostralos defeated the Telmori and took the area known
as Jomesland or Wulfsland in tribute. He settled Jomesland with
outlaws, farmers from the Imperial Heartland, army veterans, and
a few former Maboder clanfolk, who live as slaves.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 4

The Wolfslayers

69

JONSTOWN

OWLFLIGHT CREST

Sartar founded the city in 1481 to settle a feud between Quivini
tribes and the Telmori. It is an important marketplace and boasts
the famous Jonstown Library, set up by Sartar’s son Eonistaran the
Sage. Only slightly less well-known is the House of Peace, a temple
of Chalana Arroy. An old hill fort overlooks Sartar’s modern city.

This range of hills was the border between the Culbrea and the
Aranwyth tribes but since Starbrow’s Rebellion, the hills have
firmly been under the Aranwyth’s control. The Hill of Orlanth
Victorious is an important temple to Orlanth lies to the south
and is where Orlanth began the Lightbringers’ Quest.

KING’S ROAD

PAVIS ROAD

Sartar built the section of this road that runs from Wilmskirk and
Boldhome in the south to Jonstown. It is dwarf work and spectacular where it passes through the mountains. Terasarin extended
the road from Jonstown through Dangerford and Herongreen to
reach Alda-Chur uniting the people of the Far Place with Sartar.
The road is strategically important as the main roadway for armies
between the Far Place and the south. The Empire marched down
it when it invaded, and when it defeated Starbrow’s Rebellion.
Many expect them to march down it again.

This is not a Sartarite road but a Lunar military road crossing Prax
and ending at the Sartarite colony of New Pavis.

LORTHING RIVER AND
THE LORTHING VALLEY
This rich valley is the heart of the Culbrea tribe. The Barlamani
clan cultivates the northern lands of the valley while the Culbri
clan, centered on Fox Hollow, lives in the south.

RED BIRD
This fort lies in the Arfritha Vale; a curse bans all red birds from
entering the Arfritha Vale where the fort sits.

RED COW FORT
This lies on a meander of the Heort Creek that forms a natural
promontory, and the Red Cow clan has taken over the ancient
fortifications here.

SAZDORF

The Lizardwood Flats are home to the Bachad tribe, and the
traditional point where the territories of the Far Place tribes begin.

The Sazdorf troll tribe lives in the Haunted Ruins within Battle
Valley. They are famous amongst the Orlanthi for the struggles
of the Temple of the Wooden Sword to replace Zorak Zoran with
Humakt as their war god. They learnt from the human contact
of that time and are able to bargain with the local clans, not just
fight them.

LIZARDWOOD WILDS

SIX SISTERS

These forests stretch between the Far Point and northern Sartar
separating the Sun-worshipping tribes of the Far Point and the
Darkness-worshipping Torkani tribe. Skirmishes are common here,
and many raiding parties cross the woods in both directions. The
lizards that dwell there now are mostly rat-sized and insignificant,
a mere shadow of their former glory.

These six peaks in the Forloss Hills were spirits active during the
time of the EWF. Each sister has the head of a particular animal
set on a beautiful human body.

LIZARDWOOD FLATS

SOLFINT RIVER
A tributary of the Creek flowing, from the Indigo Mountains.

MOANING VALLEY

STAEL’S HILLS

The Old Saint’s Road winds through the Moaning Valley, and is
the usual route for raiders from Prax. The King’s Tower, a lonely
watchtower, guards the passage from Battle Valley, atop the spire.
The Lorthing clan tries to eke out a living here, despite the proximity to the Sazdorf trolls and the Telmori; most gather close to
the protection of Jarolar’s Keep.

A range of hills north of Ormthane Vale.

ORLANTH’S HILL
An open-air temple to Orlanth stands at the summit, marked by
standing stones and colored windsocks.

OLD WYRM’S TOP
The hill here gives its name to the village on the summit. The hill
is covered with the broken remains of EWF villas; most have been
picked apart for building materials. Much of the rubble has ended up
in the impressive walls of the village. Many Maboder tribes folk who
survived the fury of the wolfmen did so by sheltering behind those
walls, and this village’s proud boast is that is has never fallen to the
wolfmen. It belongs to Jomes now, its former inhabitants slaves for
their new masters, but remains a hotbed of resistance to Jomes’ rule.

70

STAGLAND
These are disputed tribal lands between the Dogbone Hills and
the Solfint River. The Red Cow hunters call this Stagland for the
good deer hunting. Only the very brave hunt here though, for
the Telmori considers this land theirs.

STONEGATE
Also known as Wulf Fort this was once the royal center of the
Maboder tribe. After the Lunars under Jomes defeated the Telmori
in turn, the victorious soldiers built a new fort upon the site.

SUNSHINE INN
In Goodhaven clan lands, the Sunshine Inn lies along the King’s
Road from Jonstown to Boldhome. It is the last stop before travelers head into the Quivin Mountains, or the first welcome rest
after they emerge and many of those making the journey between
Boldhome and Jonstown stop here.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 4

TORKAN’S LAST FORT
A fort in the Goodfarm Vale, built by the tribal founder on the ruins
of an old hill fort, it is now the seat of the powerful Siganti clan.

TORKAN VALE
In 1460 a horde of Telmori werewolves descended upon the people
of the valley, slew all they could catch, and laid waste the ancestral
villages. The hunting bands of the Telmori make their home here
and in the hills around.
The river that runs through Torkan’s Vale flows only very
slowly. Thick reed-beds cover the margins of the lake, while
choking weeds and green scum spread out far from the shore in
the summer months.

TWO FISTED INN
Grown popular since the Empire came, it extends a warm welcome
to Lunar travelers. Many of the supply caravans running from
Tarsh to the Empire pause here.

TWO-PINE RIDGE
The Two-Pine clan of the Culbrea holds this wooded ridge.

WHITE CROW INN
This inn lies on the southern side of Cinsin Bridge and is a major
rest stop for caravans traveling between Jonstown and Dangerford.
The lands here belong to the Frithan clan, who are only too happy
to hire as guards to the travelers on the King’s Road.

WOODS OF THE DEAD
Ghouls and other undead haunt these forested hills. Evil King
Brangbane of the Dinacoli and his followers sought shelter here in
1501 after Sartar outlawed him. The undead militia of the Ghoul
King still raids the villages and clan lands of their former tribesfolk.

WOLF STAND
In exile, Queen Ivartha once led settlers to colonize Torkan’s Vale.
She failed, and the resulting retaliation led to the destruction
of the Maboder. Queen Ivartha still longs to return people to
Torkan’s Vale.

WOLF RIDGES
Sartar granted these hills to the Telmori. Wooded draws and copses
characterize the vales, while the ridges above are grassy.

TEMPLES
AMBUSH HILL
A hill in Wulfsland, Ambush Hill rises six hundred feet above
the woods of Stagland. Its top is bare and can be easily seen by
anyone who climbs a Stagland tree. On the summit a henge of
wood marks the site of an old temple to Orlanth.
In the Storm Age, Finovan watched for the Bull Leapers here
and ambushed their sacred caravan. He stole their sacred purple
bulls and added them to his own herd.

THE GIANT LANT ULFAR
Lant Ulfar the giant lived in the Quivin Mountains during
the Gods Age. He was content just to live his life and beat
his drum, but one god annoyed him: Larnste, the God of
Motion. Larnste could not stop, no matter the need, but
was always constantly in motion. His footsteps would
interrupt Lant Ulfar’s drumming, so the giant decided one
day to stop Larnste. He set a trap on the top of a nearby
hill, a table set with all the foods that gods love — stewed
balarn fruit, juicy haunches of gazzam, and beakers of
the effervescent wine of Stralos. He knew that this might
tempt the god to run around the table to inspect the food,
so he made a tanglefoot trap to slow the god, and he
would drum the Slow Beat. With all this, he would stop
the God of Motion, and in doing so make him cease to
be, for Larnste cannot ever stop by his very nature.
Lant Ulfar sat behind his drum; with his drumsticks
thrust into a little hill of dirt he scraped together, waiting
for the little running pest. As he sat, he did not notice
Orlanth Destor stalking up behind him. Orlanth knew
what Lant Ulfar was doing, and did not want anything to
happen to his uncle, Larnste. As Lant Ulfar saw Larnste
approaching from far off he reached for his drumsticks to
start the Slow Beat, but Orlanth dealt him such a blow that
the giant’s arm was severed, and with a second blow he
was shattered into pieces. Orlanth hit him so hard that the
giant’s head flew to the table he had set for Larnste, and
his heart flew farther, coming to rest on Two Ridge Top.
And so Larnste was able to enjoy his meal.

The Maboder used to worship Orlanth here, when not at
the ceremonies at Good Rain Hill. Rebels continue to use it to
worship Orlanth, especially the Daughters of Mabodh, despite
the efforts of Jomes.

GOOD RAIN HILL
Good Rain Hill rears up two and a half thousand feet at the
southern tip of the Indigo Mountains foothills. On the summit
of the hill stands a small lake, which freezes over every winter.
Filled solely by rainwater rather than by any underground spring,
this lake is a sacred site to Heler, and a small shrine stands on
its banks.
The hill is steep in places and reaching the lake involves an
arduous climb, but it can be worth it. Collected with the proper
rituals, water from the lake can enhance Heler’s magics if sprinkled
on the ground within a week.
The Cinsina and the Torkani use the shrine here for the worship
of Orlanth and the Heler sub-cult.

HUMAKT’S HILL
In the Gods Age, Humakt struck his sword into the earth and
sat on this hill. Afterwards people came and threw offerings into

The Wolfslayers

71

the deep crevice made by his sword. Since then, it has remained
a holy place to speak to Humakt.
The Cinsina and the Torkani use the shrine here for the worship of Humakt. The local Humakti regiment makes an effort to
gather people here for worship on all of Humakt’s Holy Days,
and it forms the focus of Humakti in the region.

LARNSTE’S TABLE
Larnste’s Table lies a few miles west of Jonstown in northern
Sartar. Larnste raised this steep-sided plateau when he needed a
place to rest his staff and gloves one day while he ate. Pilgrims
travel to offer sacrifices to the Unfettered One — an epithet of
both Larnste and Orlanth.
Larnste’s Table is the most sacred holy place of Orlanth for
the Cinsina and Malani tribes and an important temple for the
Colymar as well. The temple receives gifts from Orlanthi throughout Dragon Pass and Sartar, making it the main source of wealth
for the Underwillow clan.

72

The Underwillow clan has possessed this temple for generations,
and successive chief priests have come from the clan.
In 1613, Fazzur Wideread defeated Kallyr Starbrow’s Sartar Free
Army at Larnste’s Table. The Lunars claim to have fettered Orlanth
with this victory. Orlanthi holy men seek magical means of freeing
the Unfettered One and thereby reversing the Lunar triumph.
The Lunars suppress worship of Orlanth here, but the tribes
continue worship of Orlanth in secret, especially on One Day.

ORLANTH’S HILL
This high domed hill is bare of trees and rises one thousand feet
from the forests of the Lizardwood, north of Goodfarm Vale. The
wind always seems to blow stronger here than nearby and lightning
strikes frequently. An open-air temple stands at the summit, marked
by standing stones and colored windsocks blowing in the breeze.
This temple is sacred to Orlanth Thunderous. The Cinsina
often join the Torkani clans here for worship, particularly for the
Thunder Day rites.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 4

• Chapter 5 •

THE DOLUTHA
OLDEST OF
THE CINSINA

T

he Dolutha are the ‘trouble clan’ of the
Cinsina. Orlanth and Ernalda both punish the
Dolutha. They have a history of kinstrife —
the crime without compensation — although the
killers have sought to take the burden on themselves
by becoming Humakti, or eating dirt; the ring has
broken the gods’ laws, committing secret murder
and adultery. The clan wyter no longer speaks to the
chieftain; without the gods’ protection, the weakened
clan suffers. The last priest of Orlanth, Hallarax, says
the clan now has Chaos at its heart, the missionaries
of the Seven Mothers welcomed by Ivar Quickstep.
The Red Cow and Dolutha have contended for
the kingship of the Cinsina ever since the founding
of the tribe. Usually the clans confine their rivalry to
cattle and horse raids, but the occasional accidental
injury or death leads to claims of compensation and
sometimes feuds.
The Dolutha often view the Red Cow with jealousy, sometimes anger, and occasionally hatred.
They envy the Red Cow’s leadership of the tribe; it
dominates their politics and ambitions. The Dolutha
delight in undermining Red Cow leadership. Any
misfortune, any adverse turn of events is seized upon
to try to win advantage in the tribe.
Despite their troubled relations, the Dolutha and
the Red Cow can act together. They share a hatred
of the Dinacoli and the Telmori. Since the resettlement of Dragon Pass, they have fought together,
bled together, and died together.

FIRST AMONG EQUALS
The Dolutha are proud of being the oldest of the
Cinsina clans. When the other clans of the Cinsina
were still preparing to leave in Heortland or the North
March, their ancestors had already settled along the
banks of the Creek. They are immensely proud of
their status as ‘first and oldest.’ The Dolutha descend
from the Ferfal Alliance: a triaty of horse-riding clans
from Saird to the north of Dragon Pass who drove
the Grazer clans from the grasslands along the Creek.

The Ferfalings bloodline of the Dolutha clan has a
long tradition of worshipping Elmal the loyal thane.
The influence of Elmal has set the Dolutha apart
from the other clans of the Cinsina for generations.
They have had Elmal chieftains throughout their
history. The fine horses that the clan raises along
the Creek are the envy of their neighbors and often
the target of raids.

COLLABORATION WITH EMPIRE
Pride motivated the Dolutha to collaborate with the
Empire. They had always believed themselves ‘first
among equals’ and their chieftain Ivar Quickstep
was ambitious. Ivar saw how the Maboder prospered
from withholding their militia from the defense of
the kingdom; he watched as the Dinacoli and Harvar
Ironfist grew fat on Lunar trade. Welcoming the
Empire promised riches and influence.
The Empire’s wealth has flowed into Dangerford.
The thanes of the clan fill their homes with Lunar
pottery and glassware. The Dolutha’s gifts outshine
those of their neighbors.
Some resist. They fear the leadership of the clan
has gone too far. They point to Ivar’s enforcement of
his rule with mercenaries. They cling to the worship
of Orlanth and have no desire to embrace the Seven
Mothers. They yearn to be free.

THE CLAN
There are about 1000 members of the clan; about 550
are adults with the remainder children. Of the adults,
about 90 have lived long enough to become elders.
There are roughly equal numbers of men and
women and about 75 thanes in the clan and 240
carls, with the remainder of the adults cottars or
stickpickers. There have been many more of the
latter in recent years, disenfranchised Orlanthi who
refuse to turn from the old ways and worship the
Seven Mothers.
The Dolutha lands lie along the Creek where it
separates the Donalf Flats from Cinsina lands. The
clan owns the lands south of the Creek between the
Lorthing River and the Danda Creek, where the
Dolutha raise cattle and fine horses.
At the heart of the clan lands is Dangerford
Fort, which guards the best crossing along the

The Dolutha

TALK LIKE A
DOLUTHAN
The Dolutha clan
descends from people
who came south to
Dragon Pass, from the
Kynnelfing Alliance
in Saird fleeing the
expanding Lunar
Empire. As such their
ancestors’ customs
differed from many of
their southern neighbors,
and they did not speak
Southern Theyalan.
Long contact with the
rest of the Cinsina on
the south of the Creek
meant the Dolutha
switched to speaking
Southern Theyalan over
the years, losing many of
their native differences.
However, they still use
some Tarshite words and
follow some customs that
bear more resemblance
to northern tribes, such
as the Dinacoli, than
southern tribes like the
Cinsina.
When times are difficult,
other Cinsina clans are
quick to point out these
differences and question
whether Dolutha loyalty
lies “north or south of
the Creek.”

73

THE DOOM OF THE DOLUTHA
The Dolutha clan needs a hero, without one they will not
survive the Hero Wars. Two murders, that of the Cinsina
king Garralor, and that of the chieftain Good Arnal stain
the clan — and mean the gods have turned their backs
upon them. Kinstrife can never be fully remedied because
there can be no compensation from your own kin. The
consequence is to allow Chaos into the world.
Saving the clan is outside of this book. However, a clan
can use the Summons of Evil (Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes
page 92), pouring their sorrow and woe into it, and after
a year of fighting and killing the enemies it summons,
and burning the corpses on a fire, weep. After two more
years of mourning, draining their tears into the empty
space, the Dolutha will be as healed as they can ever be.
It may not be enough.

Creek at Dangerous Isle. The Dinacoli and the Cinsina have
fought epic battles to control the fort and the crossing point.
Dangerford is the heart of the Dolutha with over two-thirds of
the clan living there.
The Dolutha’s neighbors to the east across the Danda Creek
are their old rivals, the Red Cow clan. To the south of them is
the Blueberry clan, who joined the Cinsina after Starbrow’s first
rebellion; the Dolutha still mistrust these ‘Culbrea’ clans. To the
east, across the Lorthing River is the Frithan clan of the Cinsina.
To the north of the Creek is the Fox clan of the Dinacoli tribe.

CULTS OF THE DOLUTHA
The Dolutha worship Ernalda, queen of the Earth and her sons
and husbands. Barntar and Elmal are the best gods for men to
worship, though some still follow Orlanth. Since the arrival of
the Lunar Empire, many people have converted to worship the
Seven Mothers.
The clan has always honored Elmal the Sun. Members of
the Ferfalings bloodline often receive the Fire Rune (.) at their
initiation. Women who are born with the Fire Rune worship
Redalda, Elmal’s wife.
Barntar is Ernalda’s son and the farmers value his assistance
raising their crops, tending to their cattle, and keeping their villages.
Many of those who once followed Orlanth switched to follow
Barntar, Orlanth’s son when the Empire came. The Dolutha have
become a clan of Barntar farmers ruled by an Elmali warrior-elite.
Only a few men now openly worship Orlanth — others live in
exile, as guests of other chieftains, nursing their grudges and waiting
for the moment to take back their clan from the Moon Winds.
The Lunar mission has been surprisingly successful in gaining
converts in Dangerford where its worshippers are craftsmen,
mercenaries, healers, and traders. It is less successful in the remote
farmsteads.
A small number of people worship Engizi, mostly the clan’s
fishermen.

74

Ernalda exl — 146 initiates, 3 devotees
Barntar gF — 90 initiates, 1 devotee
Seven Mothers x/t — 60 initiates, 1 illuminate
Orlanth gsW — 58 initiates, 2 devotees
Elmal .y — 40 initiates, 1 devotee
Redalda .y — 30 initiates
Engizi the Skyriver Titan ws — 15 initiates
Yinkin Y — 9 initiates
Issaries hs — 8 initiates
Vinga gsW — 5 initiates
Humakt ty — 3 initiates

DOLUTHA WYTER:
OLD MARTEN gt
Old Marten was a brother of Ferfal. He died at the triumphant
Battle of the Sun Horses, and the clan buried him in a grove of
trees. After his death, Marten returned to the clan to watch over
them. He has become disheartened since the clan turned from
Orlanth and his magic is weak and does not speak to the chieftain,
who he sees Elmal has cursed, so the clan only communicates with
him through the rustle of trees in his grove.

THE BLOODLINES
There are four Dolutha bloodlines.
• The founder’s bloodlines trace their descent from Ferfal and
Jarosar, the Ferfalings and Jarosarings.
• The Redaldings and the Twin Brothers bloodlines trace
their descent from the survivors of the other members of the
original triaty of clans that settled north of Isle Dangerous.
The Dinacoli destroyed the Redaldings and Twin Brothers
and the survivors joined with the Dolutha forming the
bloodlines that now bear their names.

POLITICAL FACTIONS
There are only two major factions in Dolutha politics.
• The Loyal Thanes support Ivar’s continued chieftaincy.
Their reasons are varied. Some welcome the changes that the
Empire brought to Sartar and work for or await the Empire’s
return. They enjoy ‘civilization’ and have no desire to return
to ‘barbarism.’ Some feel that prejudice against the Elmali
lies at the heart of opposition to Ivar’s chieftaincy. They are
determined to resist what they see as Orlanthi arrogance.
Others are frightened into supporting Ivar, afraid that they
may themselves fall victim to retribution if Ivar is deposed,
or that Ivar’s henchman will punish them if they learn of
dissent.
• The New Wind seeks to overthrow Ivar. At first, they were
just rebels against the Empire, and their numbers were
small. More join as Ivar’s overturning of the old ways continues. As Ivar looks to protect his reign, he undermines it.
The decision to remain on Dolutha lands or take refuge in
the halls of nearby chieftains divides the New Wind. Many
of their renowned leaders have sought exile in fear for their

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 5

lives. Many of the youngsters who now call for rebellion no
longer respect these absentee leaders. This division helps to
weaken the New Wind and keep Ivar in power.

DANGERFORD

There are thirty-five members of the Seven Mothers mission, and
50 camp followers provide cooking, laundry, liquor, sexual services
and sutlery to the garrison and troops passing through.
These occupying forces have almost doubled the adult population of Dangerford; the streets are filled with the occupying
forces or their hangers-on. Many locals resent this.

ARRIVING AT
DANGERFORD FORT

WELCOME TO THE CITY
HISTORY
Arkat, in the First Age, fought a terrible battle at Isle Dangerous,
the best crossing of the Creek. A large mound north of the ford
houses the dead from that battle, and Dangerford Fort is built
atop that mound. Later, the Ferfal Alliance defeated a Grazer army
here to secure their right to the land, and a smaller mound, Dead
Horse Hill, houses those dead.
Jarolar Saronilsson designed and built the fort on Arkat’s Hill
that guards the approach to Isle Dangerous, the best crossing of the
Creek. The isle’s name comes of its role in Cinsina and Dinacoli
histories where it is often the site of great duels of champions,
battles, or raids.
The Empire has heavily occupied this strategic river crossing.
It is a center of Lunar military activity and a focus for guerrilla
action by the rebels.

THE FORT AND VILLAGE
Dangerford has grown to become far more than a convenient river
crossing, between Alda-Chur and Jonstown.
Dangerford Fort stands to the north of the Creek on Arkat’s
Hill. A stone tower stands at the fort’s heart, surrounded by a
palisade and guard towers. Smaller buildings run along the inside
of the ramparts.
Dangerford Village lies on the opposite side of the river from
the fort. The village is an important trade center on the road
between Alda-Chur and Boldhome, with a thriving market. There
is a sense of hustle and business here. Strangers regularly wander
the streets, not just Dolutha clan-folk. The clan has benefited
from all the trade.

POPULATION
Six hundred people live permanently in Dangerford. Only some
fifty of these live in the Fort, the remainder lives in the village.
There are 330 adults at Dangerford, the remainder children. Of
the adults, fifty have lived long enough to be counted as elders.
There are forty-five thanes in Dangerford, many of them Elmali
from the Ferfalings bloodline. Of the remaining adults, 145 are
carls, seventy are crafters, and 70 are cottars.
The population is divided into some 10 households in the
Village and the chieftain’s household in the Fort. Each household
consists of four or five extended family hearths, each with about
twelve family members, adults and children.
The Lunar Empire has a large presence at the strategically
important crossing. A detachment of 80 soldiers keeps the crossing
open. In addition twelve engineers and sixteen supply officers are
stationed here to provide logistical support to the troops traveling
south in support of the Empire’s expansion into the Holy Country.

FROM A DISTANCE
The royal road from Alda-Chur to Boldhome crosses the Creek
at Dangerford. Once the Creek formed the border between the
Dinacoli and the Sanchali; now it forms the border between the
Dinacoli and the Cinsina, and the crossing has seen many battles
between the tribes.
Isle Dangerous provides the key to crossing the Creek. Although
the river is 500’ wide at this point, travelers only have to wade
across two 100’ stretches of water. In Fire Season, the water can
be knee deep but, in Storm Season, it may be waist deep.
There are two hills either side of the king’s road north of the
Creek. Arkat’s Hill is the taller, and Dangerford Fort is built atop
that vantage point. Dead Horse Hill is the smaller hill.
Trade boats unload their cargo at Dangerford, and do not
travel further upstream. Some boats disembark their cargo to
take it south on the royal road to Jonstown or Boldhome from
here, or north to Alda-Chur; some boats unload cargo and send
it further on by the mule caravans taking the trail to Red Cow,
Stonegate, and beyond to Torkan’s Fort. Boats heading back
down the Creek are usually carrying cattle or grain, brought by
trail from Red Cow or Jomesland. Boats also pick up cargoes
coming from Alda-Chur or Tarsh and carry it to Malani or
Colymar lands.
Korolfin Longeye meets all visitors to Dangerford Village
offering the Greeting to visitors unless they are thanes, priests,
Imperial officials or wealthy merchants whom he takes to meet
Ivar Quickstep.

STAYING AT THE FORT
As an important crossing of the Creek, Dangerford often plays
host to travelers who have no kin here. This has led to the growth
of two local inns. Geo’s Creek Inn was the original inn, founded
by Sartar’s companion Geo. The Two Fisted Inn came later, and
has expanded under the Empire, as Lunar travelers are not welcome at Geo’s.
Imperial couriers and officials with the right papers stay at the
Imperial Way Station. This new building is more of a military post
than an inn, but greasing the right palms with silver gets some
Etyries merchants and priests rights to a good bed here for the night.
No one stays at the fort proper, Ivar sends visitors, regardless
of status across the Creek to Dangerford Village.

GATE GUARDS
The Sworn Knives guard Dangerford Fort, manning both the
gate and all six of the towers of the fort. Where it does not
border the Creek, a circular wall surrounds Dangerford Village

The Dolutha

75

DANGERFORT

76

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 5

with a gate to the south. Korolfin Longeye leads a patrol of the
militia who patrols the walls, man the gates, and keep the peace
in Dangerford Village.

WEEKLY MARKET
Dangerford has a weekly market on Wildday, when travelers
in the region like to shelter from roaming Telmori. Astride the
only crossing of the Creek on the King’s Road Dangerford is a
stopping point for caravans between Alda-Chur and Jonstown.
Dangerford holds Dolutha surpluses of grain, horses, salted and
smoked meat, leather, wool, furs and hides. Many people come
from the Jonstown area to trade for horses here.
Once per season, merchants from the clans bring the surplus
here to trade at the tribal market. There is a festival mood in
Dangerford at this time, and it is not unusual for entertainers
such as the Puppeteer Troupe to make an appearance. It can be a
time for romance as youngsters from different clans visiting the
market for the first time meet, and despite the peace of the market,
it can also be a place where old rivalries and feuds spill out into
duels on Isle Dangerous.

GENERAL AUTHORITY ATTITUDES
The Sworn Knives are professional soldiers wearing bronze scale
armor and carrying swords and shields. They are firm but polite,
resolute but calm, haughty and arrogant. They always question
visitors to the fort and only allow entry to important people (emissaries, powerful merchants, Imperial officials) directing others to
Dangerford Village and Korolfin Longeye. As ‘men of coin’ with
no kinship to the Dolutha, they can be bribed to ‘look the other
way’ in disputes or provide access to Ivar.
Korolfin Longeye and his watchmen look after Dangerford
Village. Korolfin and the watch are stern but friendly, happy to
help well-meaning travelers, but quick to stamp out trouble. They
are open-minded, and have dealt with a wide range of visitors to
the village over the years. Still old prejudices prevail, and while the
watch might tolerate dwarves, they still bear hostility for Red Cow
or Dinacoli visitors due to ‘old scores.’ Korolfin is scrupulously
honest, but many of the watch are not above the odd bribe to
look away from minor infractions.
The Lunar garrison patrols the road and the crossing, but rarely
involve themselves in trouble in the village, unless it involves their
own. The Lunar troops often harass Sartarites. Sometimes this
is verbal abuse or beatings; sometimes it is seizure of goods or
property. Appeals to other authorities because of this treatment
are never successful.

TREATMENT OF TROUBLEMAKERS
Troublemakers are brought to the clan ring for judgment. Strangers
have broken hospitality and the ring will fine and eject them. The
ring fines members of the Dolutha clan and the money is used to
pay compensation to their victims. Serious local troublemakers
may be outlawed. The ring may bring members of Cinsina clans
before the tribal courts to demand fines and even exile for offenders.
Those who refuse to pay their fines run the risk of being killed by
the kin of their victims.
Serious troublemakers — those who threaten the Occupation
— are dealt with by the Lunar garrison and delivered by them to

the Garrison Commander for judgment. Rebels and those who
harm Lunar citizens are crucified on Isle Dangerous.

VISITING THE CHIEFTAIN
Ivar Quickstep spends much of his time within Dangerford Fort.
Unless the visitors are thanes, emissaries, or otherwise obviously
wealthy or important gaining an audience with Ivar is difficult.
The guards refer most people to Korolfin Longeye instead. Korolfin
handles day-to-day business with an apologetic manner for his
chieftain being ‘busy.’
Ivar can never get warm; his hall always has a fire burning,
and he is wrapped in furs, even on a hot day. The Sworn Knives
protect the chieftain from outsiders during audiences — Korolfin
Longeye protects the chieftain from betrayal by the Sworn Knives.
Ivar only enjoys visitors who flatter him, or can offer support in
his quest to become King of the Cinsina.

TOWN GOVERNMENT
There is no distinction between town and clan government in
Dangerford. The chieftain of the Dolutha, Ivar Quickstep governs
here with the support of the ring.

PROPERTY
The Dolutha clan owns all land in the Dangerford Fort and Village
collectively. The Dolutha ceded the land used by Empire to build
its fort after the Lunar Invasion.

HOUSING
Most houses in Dangerford Village are single-storied timber
buildings with a thatch or shingled roof. Farmers usually have
a shelter for livestock within the house; crafters have space for
a workshop. Most houses have an outside garden for vegetables.
Dangerford Village prospers from its location on a major trade
route and some of the locals have earned enough to build stone
houses or two-story timber houses with chimneys. Most of these
houses also have cellars. Storage huts on four stilts, workshops,
wells, toilets, refuse and storage pits complete the picture.
Horse-heads and tails predominate as a motif amongst the
many carvings on posts and roof-beams.

LOCATIONS
1. DANGERFORD FORT
Prince Jarolar built the walls around Arkat’s Hill. The outer face
of the wall is a scarp of un-mortared stone blocks, separated by
long horizontal timber poles spaced two feet apart, backed by a
core of rubble 2’ thick. The wall stands 20’ high, and has a 5’ wide
catwalk. A 3’ palisade tops it, shielding defenders from missiles. Six
stone watchtowers, each forty-foot high stand along the perimeter.
There is one main gate and two postern gates.
A round tower stands at the fort’s heart. The tower is 45’ tall,
60’ in diameter. Wooden floors partition the tower into several
levels. The ground floor is a storeroom, jail, and stable. The upper
floors are the chieftain’s hall and (above that) his private rooms. In

The Dolutha

77

the wall-spaces are corridors and stairways connecting the tower’s
levels. A thatched roof crowns the tower, surrounded by ramparts
giving a commanding view of the surrounding land.
Other buildings run along the inside of the walls, quarters,
storerooms, and kitchens for the Sworn Knives.

north. The walls stand 6’ high, and 30’ wide. A 3’ high wooden
parapet surmounts the wall. There are no watchtowers on the walls.

7. THE SOUTH GATE

Old Marten’s Circle, a henge, stands to the east of the fort. The
clan wyter, Old Marten dwells here, and this is a shrine to the
clan’s ancestors.

The South Gate pierces the walls, it is thirty feet wide, with two
great wooden gates, but is set back in the earthworks, so that the
entrance is down a narrow defile overlooked by ramparts on either
side. Over the gate a wooden guardhouse provides a headquarters
for Korlofin Longeye and quarters for the watch. The passage into
Dangerford from the gate runs under this gatehouse.

3. DEAD HORSE HILL

8. THE IMPERIAL WAY STATION

When Ferfal Dolutha defeated the Grazeland Pony Breeders who
claimed this land as their own — he buried their bodies here. This
site is sacred to the memory of the clan’s ancestors.

The Way Station lies to the west of the royal road. It is a complex
containing two enclosures. One contains the offices of the Spoken
Word’s courier system, where messengers check in, forward messages, and arrange for replacement mounts. A stable holds fresh
mounts and provides care for horses that have just completed a leg.
It also holds accommodation for the way station’s staff. The other
enclosure contains a small inn, with five separate guest rooms, an
external kitchen, and spaces for animals and carts.
Lunar soldiers guard the way station and refuse entry to all those
who do not carry passes from the Spoken Word of the Provincial
Government entitling them to use official facilities.

2. OLD MARTEN’S CIRCLE

4. ISLE DANGEROUS
Isle Dangerous makes it possible to cross the Creek. The banks
on the northern side are far steeper than those on the south. The
island is some 300’ across and 600’ long. Trees cover the island,
but a section of the royal road cuts clearly across it at the best
fording point. The island has seen many clashes over the years and
is also a traditional dueling ground for the local clans (see Sartar:
Kingdom of Heroes page 216).

5. DANGERFORD VILLAGE
On the south side of the Creek Dangerford Village is a bustling
village running either side of the royal road between Boldhome
and Alda-Chur. The majority of the settlement is on either side of
the royal road, further divided by the Red Cow Road to the east.
Along the royal road are small huts — when the market is closed
the artisans of Dangerford still sell their goods to travelers from
here along with food and ale sellers looking to supply the hungry
and thirsty who do not have time to stop at the inn.
The residential area is parceled into households by wooden
fences; the buildings within tend to belong to a bloodline, led by a
thane. Many of the houses are home to the clan’s artisans, weavers,
carvers, potters, cloth, smiths, and leather workers. Households
specialize in one type of work or another.
Settlement inside the walls is uneven. The households are on
the eastern side of the road, leaving the west for the market and
temples. The residential area stops short of the walls, with a strip
some 100’ wide around the perimeter used for grazing.
Along the Dangerford Village banks of the Creek the boatmen
draw up their craft, to unload, take on cargo and passengers, or
simply to rest for the night at one of the inns. The duck boats
once stopped here, but the duck boatmen have not been seen since
the Empire declared them scapegoats for Starbrow’s Rebellion.

6. DANGERFORD WALLS
The village walls are of a later date than Prince Jarolar’s walls
around the fort, but use the same technique: a rubble or earth core,
horizontal timbers, and a stone face with cross beams protruding
through the stone facing. On the inside an earthen bank backs the
wall. The walls surround the village apart from the banks of the
Creek, which is considered defense enough against attack, even
at the ford where Dangerford Fort guards the approach from the

78

9. GEO’S CREEK INN
Geo’s Creek Inn stands on the south shore of the Creek at
Dangerford, right next to the King’s Road. A wooden wall surrounds a large courtyard, and its double-doors are always open.
To the right and left of the gate are a small smithy and brewery.
Against the back wall stands the inn itself, a two-story wooden
building. The tavern, kitchen, and a small storeroom take up the
ground floor. The second floor has a common sleeping area and
a small room for the innkeeper. A hayloft above the second floor
provides quarters for casual staff and the poorest travelers. The
stables are outside, to the right of the inn.
A wanderer known only as “Rock” acquired the inn in 1616;
the previous keeper went for a walk one night and never returned.
The patrons still keep an empty seat and full tankard ready for
him, just in case.
In the kitchen is a battered, bronze cauldron. Geo hung it over
the fire years ago and it has remained there since. The ‘Stewpot’ is
always full of fish stew. The amount of stew never seems to change;
no matter what ingredients are added to the pot. Speculation
suggests that all the Geo’s Inn stewpots are connected and food
is shared between them as needed.
The main staff members are Broyan the brewer, Broyan the
cook, and Broyan the smith — the three Broyans — Whitefringe
the stableman and Strong-arm the bouncer. In addition, various
itinerants help to pay for their food and lodging. Many are outlaws
from Dinacoli, Malani, Culbrea, and Cinsina clans.
Geo’s Creek Inn has become the center for opposition to Ivar.
The New Wind meets here under the watchful eye of Rock, safe
from prying eyes and ears.

10. THE TWO FISTED INN
Before the Empire came the Two Fisted Inn made a loss — but the
Etyries merchants subsidized Vasi Tight-Fist to keep an alternative

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 5

to Geo’s Creek Inn open. The Inn is a two story
wooden building built around a courtyard. The
lower floor is a series of connected bars: the Old
Bar is for Dangerford locals, who tend to dislike
outsiders — it is often half-empty; the Moon Bar is
for Lunar soldiers and administrators; the End Bar
is for visitors who do not wish to frequent the other
bars. The upper floors are bedrooms.

11. THE EAST GATE
Less impressive than the great South Gate, the single
set of wooden doors here protects a 15’ wide opening
in the wall. A short defile forces attackers into a
‘killing zone,’ overlooked by battlements to either
side. As at the South Gate, a wooden hall forms
the gatehouse, over the top of the entrance passage
through the wall into the Village.

12. DANGERFORD MARKET
& THE GREENS
On the west side of the Boldhome road, lies
Dangerford market. An area of open ground, the
market is marked by a number of poles, carved
with images of Issaries’ children and grandchild.
The whole market acts a shrine to Issaries, and the
market boundary acts as a warding to protect those
within from theft or violence. Vasi Tight-Fist is the
current priest of the market, and he conducts the
opening ceremony.
The market here is weekly, and once a season
the tribal market is held here. During the tribal
market Dangerford fills with throngs of outsiders,
and a ‘tent city’ springs up on the western side of the
fort. People travel from nearby clans to trade at the
weekly market. During the tribal market Dinacoli,
Malani, and Culbrea traders safely rub shoulders
with Cinsina tribefolk.
Although the peace of the market protects visitors
from violence, travelers from opposing clans in a blood
feud may simply agree to ‘take it to Isle Dangerous’
where they can settle their dispute without offense to
the gods or interference from the authorities.
There is a Livestock Green here — where purchased animals are displayed for two weeks — and
a Treasure Green where plunder is displayed for
owners to claim.

13. CULT CENTER
At the center of the settlement, west of the royal road
is the cult center for the Dolutha. The stave-built
temple of Orlanth is not used since the Occupation —
Hallarax now conducts Orlanth worship at his home,
in secret and in defiance of the Lunar Occupation.
By contrast the Ernalda Temple is still the focus
for the clan. The outer wall is 24’ high and each of
the sides is 24’ long, creating a ‘cube.’ Carved into
each corner is a statue of an earth goddess: Asrelia,

Ernalda, Esrola, and Ty Kora Tek. A pair of doors
provides a single entrance. Inside, there is a courtyard
and within that the hall of Ernalda with its tiled roof.
The hall provides a place for worshippers to gather
as well as store the sacred statues of the goddess.
The Elmal Temple has benefited from the decline
of the Orlanth Temple. It is a high-roofed wooden
hall, with a buttressed lower level, and three wide
doors. A carved horse head surmounts each gable
end of the building, and ornate carvings cover the
walls and buttresses both inside and out.

14. URN FIELD
The Dolutha builds funeral pyres to cremate their
dead at the edge of the cult center. After cremation,
the clan inters the urn containing the ashes of the
dead here.

15. THE HOUSES-OF-THE-MOON
Dangerford is the strategic crossing point for armies
to cross the Creek-Stream River and supplying the
planned invasion of the Holy Country. The Empire
maintains a permanent garrison here to guard the
ford, royal road between Jonstown and Blue Boar
Fort, and the road to Red Cow Fort and Stonegate.
The garrison is laid out in an orderly fashion.
A rectangular ten-foot high wall surrounds the
garrison, with a gate in each wall. At the heart of
the garrison is the headquarters building. South
of the headquarters lies the commander’s house.
Barracks blocks provide living quarters for the men
of the garrison. The garrison also has a workshop
for repairing equipment, an infirmary for wounded
soldiers, a granary for food, and a latrine.
Outside the walls, to the south of the garrison, a
disorderly collection of buildings houses the garrison’s
camp followers.

16. THE SEVEN MOTHERS TEMPLE
Located between the cult center and the Housesof-the-Moon the Seven Mothers mission is a complex of four buildings. The temple of the Seven
Mothers is a rectangular stone building with a
peaked tiled roof, set upon a raised pedestal of
stone. The front half is a colonnade portico, the
rear half has seven doors leading to cells. In each
cell is a statue to one of the Mothers and an altar
for votive offerings. The other three buildings are
smaller houses, accommodating the priests and
priestesses stationed here. While locals tend to
avoid the Houses-of-the-Moon, a regular stream
of converts passes back and forth, worshipping or
working for the mission.
The mission ranks above that at Red Cow Fort;
Estavia GoldEyes reports to Alurae Sable-Fur who
in turn reports directly to Ontorkol the Priest in
Jonstown (Sartar Companion, page 15).

The Dolutha

TELLER OF LIES
In the Great Darkness,
when the world was
ruined and broken,
Orlanth left Elmal
in charge of the
Vingkotlings and
descended into the
Underworld to reconcile
with the Emperor.
Only by submitting to
self-judgment could he
hope to right the wrong
he created when he
killed the Emperor. In
Orlanth’s absence, Chaos
tested Elmal’s leadership
many times. He had
to fight Eater of Skin,
Author of Sores, and
Maker of Bad Growth.
Although he beat the
monsters off, it seemed
he would die from his
injuries in those fights,
but each morning he
rose to fight again.
Finally, Chaos tried
to tempt him instead.
Teller of Lies appeared to
Elmal in different guises
to attempt to get him to
flee, or to take Orlanth’s
crown for himself. In
the end, Elmal tricked
Teller of Lies by offering
him his soul in the shape
of a stallion, but when
Teller of Lies devoured
the stallion, Elmal burst
forth from within Teller
of Lies, revealing Teller
of Lies to be an empty
god and destroying him.
For an Elmali ruler,
Teller of Lies is the
temptation that comes
with power and corrupts
and blinds.

79

GOOD ARNAL, GHOUL THANE
Ivar Quickstep saw the advantages of the Empire
to the Dolutha and persuaded Good Arnal, the
old chieftain, to welcome their traders into
Dangerford. He persuaded Arnal to put foreign mercenaries
on the walls, to make the Tarshite caravans feel welcome
and pushed for the Lunarization of the clan. Arnal would
not go far enough, fast enough. Ivar wanted power, so
he joined those who railed against the Empire. His own
wife Twisted Morganeth was among them and he cajoled
her to persuade Gudny Gold-Lamb that they had to oust
Arnal. He told them the Lunars might ‘buy’ the election
and they needed to exile him from the Dolutha. They
kidnapped him, took him out into the woods, and staked
him out for Orlanth to pass judgment. The next day he
was gone, and everyone assumed the wolves took him.
Ivar betrayed Morganeth and Gudny then, seizing the
chieftaincy and going further with the Lunarization than
Arnal ever would. Morganeth recoiled in horror — unable
to believe her Elmal following husband was a disloyal
liar. Gudny sank into depression.
Good Arnal did not die that day; instead, he became
a ghoul, and thane to evil King Brangbane. Good Arnal
wants revenge on Ivar, and his chieftaincy back. Still
cognizant of his former life, Arnal lusts for revenge
on his accusers and his former clan. He plans for the
Dolutha to become a clan of thralls and food, ruled by
a ring of ghouls.

IMPORTANT PEOPLE OF
THE DOLUTHA
THE CHIEFTAIN’S HOUSEHOLD
Ivar Quickstep wraps himself in furs yet still he shivers with cold;
neither sun nor fire will warm him for Elmal has sent a Warmth
Stealer to punish his pride. He complains bitterly rubbing his
hands, crying ‘will I never be warm!’ He cannot understand his
god’s displeasure, and begs his housecarls to find and kill the
Warmth Stealer. He keeps his mistress Zaleena Silver-Tongue,
close out of jealousy; convinced she is having other relationships
he often flies into fits of rages against her. Her hostility is thinly
veiled, her loyalty to her uncle all that keeps her here. She will
push the boundaries of her own desires and needs as far as she
can without betraying her mission here. Andrin Slack-Word is
spoilt, scheming, and would rather not be here, but his escapades
in Tarsh finally caught up with him. If he must remain here, then
he wants to do so with as many of the comforts of civilization as
he can. This means converting the clan to be more like those in
Tarsh by welcoming the Empire. Andrin is determined to see that
happen. He feels sorry for the local barbarians of course, their old

80

way of life is disappearing, but nothing should stand in the way
of progress. He is bedding his father’s mistress behind his back;
the thrill of his father catching him makes the whole affair more
exciting, and she is the only civilized woman for miles.

CHIEFTAIN:
IVAR QUICKSTEP .xj
Ivar Quickstep’s heart is filled with spite: for the Red Cow, for the
dominance of the Orlanthi, for his once crippled leg. The Empire
has fed his spite, and turned it to their advantage. With their aid,
they whisper, the Dolutha can take their rightful place as leaders
of the Cinsina. The Empire pours wealth and support into the
Cinsina as more and more of the clan turns away from Orlanth.
Ivar was born club-footed. Mocked by other children, the
kindness of a Lunar missionary, Alurae Sable-Fur, convinced him
of the benefits of Lunar ‘civilization.’
Like his father before him, Ivar followed Elmal. When the
Red Cow held the Summer Queen ritual, Alurae showed Ivar
how to defeat Heler in the ritual and become Esrola’s Summer
Husband. Ivar won Morganeth’s hand in marriage and rubbed
the Heler-loving Red Cow clan’s faces in the dirt. The healing
rains of the ritual cured Ivar’s clubfoot and he became Quickstep.
The failure to win Morganeth’s hand in marriage broke Gudny
Gold-Lamb.
Unlike his father, Ivar resented Elmal’s place as Orlanth’s loyal
thane. Teller of Lies has whispered poisonous words in his ear and
he longs to be king of the Cinsina.
Aided by Morganeth and Gudny, he overthrew Good Arnal
to become chieftain. Aided by Alurae, Ivar welcomed the Empire
to the clan.
Morganeth regrets her actions in the exile of Good Arnal,
and spurns Ivar, who she knows betrayed her. Their marriage is
loveless and without intimacy. As a result, Ivar has taken Zaleena
Silver-Tongue as a mistress. Despite his adultery, the pair has yet
to divorce. She wants to remain in the clan to make amends for
her actions; he does not want her to return to the Red Cow.
Ivar Quickstep .xj
Bloodline: Ferfalings
Faction: The Loyal Thanes
Age: 54
Keywords: Chieftain
Magic: Initiate of Elmal .
Look: Dark hair and eyes; mouth set in a cruel sneer;
slight limp; wears furs even in summer

CHIEFTAIN’S MISTRESS:
ZALEENA SILVER-TONGUE 2xj
A niece of Jomes Hostralos, Zaleena’s misfortune was to become
the mistress of a barbarian chieftain.
Well-educated at Mirin’s Cross, she expected to marry a rich
man from the more ‘civilized’ parts of the provinces. Instead, she
was sent to some unwashed barbarian’s bed. She detests Ivar, but
her beauty enables her to keep him enthralled.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 5

She misses the perfumed luxuries of the provincial capital, the
silk clothing, and the jewels. She mocks Ivar’s attempts to provide
her with luxuries; his gifts are not fit for her slaves.
Zaleena attended school alongside Andrin. She finds his company
bearable; he has manners and an understanding of refinement.
Over time, their relationship has become that of lovers. She smiles
at the thought of bedding both father and son. She schemes to see
Andrin step into his father’s place as chieftain of the clan, then
become king of the Cinsina. Privately though, Zaleena mocks
Andrin as a cripple. She worries that any children she bears him,
or his father would be crippled too, and plans to take a more
handsome lover in secret to sire her children.
Zaleena encourages both father and son to tax the Orlanthi
of the clan heavily, and keep in her in luxuries. She holds the
common farmers of the clan in contempt. In turn, Zaleena is the
focus of much of their hatred.
Zaleena fears Twisted Morganeth and her anger.
Zaleena Silver-Tongue 2xj
Bloodline: None
Faction: The Loyal Thanes
Age: 19
Keywords: Noble
Magic: Initiate of the Seven Mothers 2
Look: Gold jewelry; large dark eyes; long dark hair
bound in a golden snood; perfumed; pretty face;
skinny

CHIEFTAIN’S WIFE:
TWISTED MORGANETH exW
Morganeth was not always twisted and bitter. Once she was
the vibrant and beautiful. A daughter of the Red Cow clan, she
is from the Osmanning bloodline and played with Ivartha the
Skinner as a girl. She was proud to be chosen as the Summer
Queen when the Red Cow tried to prove the triumph of Heler
over Elmal. She hoped to marry Gudny Gold-Lamb, a suitor
from the Dolutha and so weave peace between the two clans. She
was as shocked as anyone when Ivar Clubfoot won the contest.
Nevertheless, the gods favored him and healed his foot, so she
gladly married into the Dolutha.
She fell in love with the proud young thane with fire in his
belly. She aided his rise to the chieftaincy. When his lust for
power for its own sake became clear she began to dislike what
Ivar was becoming. When she realized he had betrayed Good
Arnal for the Empire, she was shocked and disgusted at her
own complicity.
Still she remains married in the hope of weaving peace between
Red Cow and Dolutha.
Morganeth knows that Ivar has fallen for Zaleena. She does
not care. She hopes it is not too late to begin a relationship with
her true love Gudny Gold-Lamb.

Twisted Morganeth exW
Bloodline: Dolutha nee Osmanning
Faction: The New Wind
Age: 38
Keywords: God-Talker
Magic: Initiate of Ernalda e
Look: Bitter and twisted; enamel hilted dagger; fine
copper broaches; long dark hair in braids

CHIEFTAIN’S SON:
ANDRIN SLACK-WORD .4j
Andrin is the son of Ivar Quickstep. Spineless and scheming,
he exploits the weak and the foolish. He is estranged from
Morganeth his mother, who despises her son’s lack of empathy,
and arrogant contempt for his kin. Like his father and grandfather Andrin has a twisted left-foot, which means he limps as
he walks. Andrin rides whenever he can, so that his crippled
foot does not hamper him. Like his father and grandfather
he was mocked as child, and Andrin is bitter towards his kin
because of it.
With the aid of Jomes, Andrin spent almost two years at the
Provincial University at Mirin’s Cross. University life made him
contemptuous of his rural origins, and he fell into drinking,
gambling, and whoring. With little perseverance for real study,
he bullied others into completing his coursework for him.
When he left at the end of 1617, it was to avoid the authorities
discovering he had stolen The Grimoire of the Brazen Skull from
the University library; he still consults with the head, learning
sorcerous spells from its lips.
Forced to return to an existence he despises, Andrin does not
welcome his return to the Dolutha. He has no ambitions — other
than the desire not to labor to earn a living. He will happily steal,
cheat, or murder to achieve his ends.
Finding a like soul, he took up with Zaleena, and has become
her lover behind his own father’s back.
Along with Zaleena, Andrin is the focus of the anti-Lunar
sentiment in the clan. His enemies would see him hanging from
a noose — another act of kinstrife in an already doomed clan.
Andrin Slack-Word .4j
Bloodline: Ferfalings
Faction: The Loyal Thanes
Age: 21
Keywords: Thief
Magic: Initiate of the Seven Mothers 4, The Grimoire
of the Brazen Skull
Look: Foppish clothes; lisp; pretty boy looks; Tarshite
mustache; Limps dragging twisted left foot

The Dolutha

81

THE CHIEFTAIN’S HOUSEHOLD AND THE SWORN KNIVES
From left to right: Ivar Quickstep, Twisted Morganeth, Gudny Gold-Lamb,
Korolfin Longeye, Jerasella Never-Doubt, Hastur Tarsh-Born

THE SWORN KNIVES
Hastur Tarsh-Born leads the Sworn Knives, mercenaries in the
service of the Ivar Quickstep. Ivar persuaded Good Arnal that
only the presence of mercenaries would persuade the Empire’s
merchants to trade at Dangerford. Ivar kept the mercenaries on after
he took the chieftaincy and they work directly for him. He trusts
their loyalty, bought in gold, more than he trusts his own thanes.
The Sworn Knives are organized into three squads of twelve
men each. The band originates from northern Tarsh, but they
have recruited Sartarites since coming here. The squads fight in a
shield wall, armored in with leg greaves, bronze scale hauberk and
helmet, and armed with a shield, long sword, and two throwing
spears. Most members of the band worship Yanafal Tarnils, the
Lunar war god, but Hastur cares little for a soldier’s religion if he
will swear an oath to obey orders.

MERCENARY CAPTAIN:
HASTUR TARSH-BORN 5tW

Hastur Tarsh-Born 5tW
Nation: Tarsh
Faction: The Loyal Thanes
Age: 39
Keywords: Hoplite
Magic: Initiate of Yanafal Tarnils 5
Look: Athletic build; no sense of humor; scornful;
slow speaker

THE INNER RING
THE DOLUTHA RING

Hastur grew up in Slavewall in Tarsh. His father was a slaver,
and Hastur spent many years raiding to capture new ‘livestock’
for his father’s business. Hastur’s upbringing left him tough and
resourceful, but it also left him taciturn and self-reliant.
His men respect him, despite his lack of humor, for his prowess as
a leader and soldier. He is harsh but fair with his men — accepting
no challenge to his authority, but always looking to their interest.
Most of his men regard the Dangerford garrison as ‘easy money’
if not as lucrative as war.
Hastur will follow Ivar’s command as long as Ivar pays him to
do so. He regards Ivar as broken by the weight of his rivalry with
the Red Cow, but provided he continues to provide gold and silver,

82

Hastur will continue to serve him. At the same time, he despises
Zaleena whose lack of discipline and self-control represents the
worst excesses of the Empire.

Chieftain: Ivar Quickstep
Beren the Rider: Derik Storm-Biter
Elmalhara: Gudny Gold-Lamb
Elmal Hearth-Guard: Korolfin Longeye
Esrola: Kenala Long-Limbed
Kero Fin: Urossi Key-Keeper
Redalda: Yendessa Other-Ways
Gudny Gold-Lamb lives with the burden of his actions — the
betrayal of the old Orlanthi chieftain Arnal. Whilst he bitterly
regrets putting the clan into Ivar’s hands, he fears what exposure
of his part in it would mean — outlawry at least — and so keeps

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 5

his own counsel. Korolfin Longeye is the Dangerford Watchman,
charged with keeping the peace within the Fort and protecting
the village and its people. Ivar appointed Korolfin and Korolfin is
loyal to a chosen leader, yet he despises the path his chieftain has
taken. Derik Storm-Biter remains steadfastly loyal to his chieftain.
Filled with a belief in Dolutha superiority, Derik is a terror of the
Dolutha’s neighbors; his raiders have robbed and pillaged their
way to wealth. Derik believes that Broddi Strong-Kin of the Red
Cow is a weak fool, who listens to the counsel of women. Kenala
Long-Limbed loves the Empire and Ivar. Kenala warns that the
Ernaldan priestess Jerasella leads the clan into kinstrife. Kenala
cares little for politics, only that the clan is peaceful and wealthy.
She will do what is necessary for that. Yendessa Other-Ways shows
how much the clan has changed, for she was born in Tarsh. Her
marriage into the clan was one of many that cemented loyalty
to Tarsh into the Dolutha bloodlines. The kingdom of Sartar is
foreign to her. Even Jerasella cannot doubt her love of horses and
the blessings she has brought to the Dolutha’s herds; what would
a clan look like that embraces Sartar and Yendessa? Grandmother
Urossi is the keeper of the keys to the clan’s stores and secrets.
Urossi supports Ivar Quickstep, and welcomes the full bellies the
Empire brings. She remembers hard years in the past, when the
crops failed. She is hungry to learn the Red Earth secrets, from
the Lunar missionaries and grow maize.

ELMALHARA:
GUDNY GOLD-LAMB gxW
Gudny Gold-Lamb is a dirt-eater, who ate soil to shield the
Dolutha from Orlanth’s wrath (see Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes
page 90). Gudny left the old chieftain Good Arnal to die, staked
out in the wilderness.
Good Arnal was a weak chieftain. He ignored the Empire’s
continual erosion of Dolutha rights and privileges. When the clan
folk complained and talked about electing a new chief, he posted
mercenaries on the walls at Dangerford. His new Lunar friend,
Illaro Broken-Back, crucified a few ‘rebels’ and the clan lost their
appetite to oust him.
Gudny, Ivar, and Morganeth met in secret. Deciding that Arnal
had become a tyrant, they agreed to depose him. Arnal believed
it was the only way to save his clan from being swallowed by
Empire. Too late, he understood that Ivar had betrayed him, and
the crime he swallowed the punishment for would not save his
clan. In fact, it would make it worse.
Gudny is wracked with stabbing pains in his guts. He needs
to defecate and urinate frequently, and painfully. He often sobs in
pain when he does so. He tries to stick to plain food, gruel, and
water, because it seems to irritate his condition less. His refusal
to seek a healer at the House of Peace in Jonstown puzzles many.
Gudny knows that all they would diagnose is that he is cursed.
Ivar Quickstep knows his secret and uses it to control him,
threatening to reveal him to the clan. Because of this, Gudny
does Ivar’s bidding. Ivar knows his presence on the ring, and open
support for Ivar’s leadership, mollifies the rebels who bemoan
Ivar’s collaboration with the Empire. The traditionalists think of
Gudny as ‘our voice.’
None know that Gudny can no longer call on Orlanth’s magic
or protection. Gudny has become adept at asking Hallarax to take

his duties or excusing himself because ‘the Empire is watching for
open worship of Orlanth.’
Gudny is determined to atone for his actions, but remains
paralyzed to reckon out how.
Gudny Gold-Lamb gxW
Bloodline: Jarosarings
Faction: The New Wind
Age: 48
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth g
Flaw: Ate dirt to conceal crime of Good Arnal’s
banishment
Look: Frequently excuses himself to relieve himself;
pale and tired; looks to be in constant pain

ELMAL HEARTH-GUARD:
KOROLFIN LONGEYE .yW
Duty is everything to Korolfin Longeye. Korolfin owes a debt
to Ivar, who saved his life once, and waits for the day the debt is
paid. Until then, he tells his chieftain stories of Elmal’s trials in
the Darkness, in the hope that Ivar will understand his error. He
realizes that Elmal’s agents of reprisal afflict Ivar.
Korolfin believes that the Lunar Empire is a manifestation of
Elmal’s Darkness foe the Teller of Lies which appears seductive
without and tempts men with fame and glory but is hollow
within; the Teller of Lies hidden within the Empire has deceived
Ivar. Unlike Elmal Ivar has not shown steadfast loyalty and has
betrayed Orlanth.
Korolfin despises Andrin. He sees Zaleena for what she is. He
resents Hastur Tarsh-Born as an outsider, who has taken the place
of Dolutha thanes at Ivar’s side.
Korolfin is the Watchman of Dangerford, and bears responsibility
for keeping the peace in Dangerford. He carries the Watchman’s
Horn to summon help and as a badge of his office. When he blows
the horn, he knows help will come.
Korolfin despises the Telmori and is a Wolfskinner. As a result,
he has never shared Ivar’s dislike of Queen Ivartha. When Ivar
rails against the Queen, Korolfin keeps his mouth firmly shut.
One day, Korolfin will crack, and desert his post.
Korolfin Longeye gxW
Bloodline: Jarosarings
Faction: The Loyal Thanes
Age: 33
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Initiate of Elmal .
Look: Burnt left hand; piercing blue eyes; rasping
voice; scarred chin

The Dolutha

83

THE HOUSECARLS
Ivar relies on the Sworn Knives to fulfill the roles these thanes
once took; he regards them as far more loyal. Korolfin Longeye
chafes against this ‘slight.’

THE PRIESTS
The priesthood is a thorn in Ivar’s side, providing much of
the criticism and opposition to his chieftaincy. If Korolfin
Longeye nurses rebellion silently, Jerasella Never-Doubt uses
the immunity her position grants her to speak out against Ivar
and the Empire. Ivar is frightened by this loud woman, and the
support she has from the women of the clan, and that fear allows
her to prosecute her disquiet. Ivar Quickstep despises Hallarax
the Last Orlanthi, the priest of Orlanth and has outlawed him,
but Hallarax continues to live amidst the clan and outwit his
agents at every turn. Jerasella Never-Doubt continues to support
Hallarax, and he is loyal to her.

ERNALDA PRIESTESS:
JERASELLA NEVER-DOUBT eWj
Jerasella is confident, assertive, and stubborn. A large woman, she
couples her intimidating manner with a strong physical presence.
She refuses to accept a passive role. Ivar Quickstep is afraid of her,
and she detests the Lunar loving chieftain in-turn.
She is among the leaders of the New Wind. She wants to see
Orlanth take his place again in the clan. She has little time for
those who collaborate with the Empire; particularly the Seven

Mothers converts whom she satirizes regularly. Andrin and
Zaleena come in for particular scorn.
Jerasella seeks a new chieftain for the Dolutha but she is short
of candidates. After all many left the clan in its time of need. She
believes in Inganna Koscheisdottir, but is unsure that the clan
would elect a woman.
She dominates her husband, Markaldor Far-Walker, who is
devoted to her.
Jerasella Never-Doubt eWj
Bloodline: Twin Brothers
Faction: The New Wind
Age: 35
Keywords: Priestess
Magic: Devotee of Ernalda e
Look: Booming voice; big gold earrings; full-figured;
large gold finger rings; plump

DOLUTHA REBELS
Disguised as Agina Wool-Hood, an itinerant sheltering at Geo’s
Creek Inn, Inganna Koscheisdottir is the leader of Dolutha
rebellion against the Empire. The Empire has put a price on
her head. She works in secret at the inn to better spy on the
movements of Lunar troops and caravans using the crossing at
Dangerford and ambushes the occasional caravan, plundering

DOLUTHA REBELS AND EMPIRE
From left to right: Inganna Kocheisdottir, Illaro Broken-back, Alurae Sable-Fur, Zaleena Silver-Tongue, Andrin Slack-Word

84

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 5

them to feed and equip the rebels. Inganna takes service with
the caravan and betrays its movements to the brothers. She
often returns looking the worst for the ambush, usually the
only survivor. General Illaro Broken-Back has begun to grow
suspicious of her ‘luck.’

HIDDEN REBEL:
INGANNA KOSCHEISDOTTIR gsW
Inganna, the daughter of Koschei Boltorsson, was a rebellious and
impetuous young woman who left home to join Kallyr Starbrow’s
Rebellion and has now returned to liberate her home.
Inganna feels guilt that she left her kin. She longs for the chance
to redeem herself, save her clan and overthrow Ivar Quickstep,
but for now, she lives in secret earning her keep as a mercenary
caravan guard.
A Telmori ravaged her face, leaving her with ruinous scars to
her face; she has hated the wolfmen ever since and still wears the
wolf ’s hide as a trim on her hood.

the possibility of making the Sartarite rebels suffer.
Illaro resents his dependence on the younger officers to act as
his legs. If he could dispense with their services he would.
Illaro controls a web of informers and spies, using them to
undermine the rebellion. Wise to the ways of the enemy, he is
clear that the assassination and murder of the rebel leaders such
as Queen Kallyr and Venharl Stormbrow would sow confusion in
the enemy ranks and prevent organized resistance.
Illaro still holds out hope for magic to restore his legs and face.
Charlatans, mountebanks, con artists, surgeons, and healers beat
a path to his door. He pays them all, hoping that one will deliver
a cure. None have.
Illaro Broken-Back 5tW
Tribe: Kordrosi
Faction: Lunar Empire
Age: 52
Keywords: General

Inganna Koscheisdottir gsW

Magic: Sevened Initiate of Yanafal Tarnils 57

Bloodline: Jarosarings

Look: Crippled legs, ruined face, croaking voice

Faction: The New Wind
Age: 27

HIGH PRIESTESS OF THE LUNAR MISSION:
ALURAE SABLE-FUR 2Wy

Keywords: Mercenary
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth Vinga sub-cult s
Look: Hooded blue cloak with wolf fur trim, long
braid, scarred face

THE LUNAR GARRISON
The Empire stations a detachment of 80 soldiers at Dangerford.
The current makeup of the detachment is 32 members of the
Arrowstone Cavalry and 48 members of the First Tarshite Light
Foot. Both units are headquartered in Jonstown (Sartar Companion,
page 12). They patrol the royal road south to Jonstown and north
to Blue Boar Fort, as well as the roads between Dangerford and
Red Cow Fort.
When Lunar units move through Dangerford, the streets swell
with visiting soldiers, and the inevitable drinking, gambling,
whoring and fighting make the town unpleasant.

GARRISON COMMANDER:
ILLARO BROKEN-BACK 5tW
Illaro was a promising young Lunar general who Sartarite rebels
ambushed in the Ghost Gors near Alda-Chur and left for dead.
He was found; his life saved, but left forever crippled, his legs
useless lumps of flesh after his spine was severed by a rebel’s
sword. Once handsome, his face was ruined by another blow
that smashed his jaw and wrecked his nose. The Deezola healers
did their best, but Illaro would never walk again, or have the
face that inspired men.
A desire for vengeance burns within him. Every morning
when his slaves help him dress, his shame and suffering renew
his hatred. He would have given up by now, ended it all, but for

A silver-haired woman of elder years, the lines on Alurae’s face
cannot disguise the fact she was once a beauty. She speaks little
of the years she spent in service to the Provincial Church before
being posted to the Dangerford mission; occasionally a bureaucrat
from the Provinces or wealthy merchant arrives in town, to drop
hints that she had kings and heroes amongst her admirers in her
youth. She certainly has jewels and furs suggesting wealth greater
than that owned by most of the church’s missionaries.
Alurae prizes good manners and politeness and cannot abide
rude behavior. She tries to help Illaro improve his manners and
despises Andrin’s behavior. Her demeanor and faded beauty
mean that she is able to outshine anyone in Ivar Quickstep’s hall,
especially the over-painted Zaleena.
She dislikes Ivar as ‘just another corrupt barbarian politician.’
She is happy to use him, but has far more respect for Broddi
Strong-Kin from the Red Cow who would not sell out his clan
for a bag of gold.
Alurae is feisty, and while unfailingly polite is a stubborn thorn
in the side of her opponents. She rarely takes ‘no’ for an answer,
and her dogged determinism usually means she gets her own way.
Alurae Sable-Fur 2Wy
Nation: Sylila
Faction: Lunar Empire
Age: 63
Keywords: Missionary
Magic: Sevened Initiate of Queen Deezola 27
Look: Silver-haired, tall, wide-mouth

The Dolutha

85

INDEX OF CINSINA NPCS
Name

Position

Bloodline

Faction

Page

Ivar Quickstep

Chieftain

Ferfalings

The Loyal Thanes

80

Zaleena Silver-Tongue

Chieftain’s Mistress

Foreigner

The Loyal Thanes

80

Twisted Morganeth

Chieftain’s Wife

Ferfalings nee Osmanning

The New Wind

81

Andrin Slack-Word

Chieftain’s son

Ferfalings

The Loyal Thanes

81

Hastur Tarsh Born

Mercenary Captain

Foreigner

The Loyal Thanes

82

Gudny Gold-Lamb

Elmalhara

Jarosarings

The New Wind

82

Korolfin Longeye

Elmal Hearth-Guard

Jarosarings

The Loyal Thanes

83

Jerasella Never-Doubt

Ernalda Priestess

Twin Brothers

The New Wind

84

Inganna Koscheisdottir

Hidden Rebel

Jarosarings

The New Wind

85

Illaro Broken-Back

Garrison Commander

Kordrosi

Lunar Empire

85

Alurae Sable-Fur

High Priestess

Sylila

Lunar Empire

85

THE WHITE
FOAL WAR
In 1608, Kulkand
Blackhands of the Fox
stole the prized white
foal from Brofin’s herds.
Brofin was incensed
and demanded that
Kulkand returned his
horse. Kulkand refused.
Rosserian the Quick,
a Dolutha thane, stole
back the foal, but in
doing so killed Kulkand’s
son. Kulkand refused
wergild, and demanded
blood vengeance. The
feud simmered the whole
summer, but went quiet
after the winter.
When Kulkand stole
the foal again in
1609, Brofin led a
raid into Fox territory
to get it back. The
raid failed, with the
Dolutha taking losses
at the Battle of Yellow
Meadow. Brofin
challenged Kulkand to a
duel on Isle Dangerous
to put the matter to
rest. The chieftain won
the day, and regained
the foal.

86

DOLUTHA
CHIEFTAINS
LIVING MEMORY

tribe from the Haunted Ruins, but he was beaten
back and the trolls killed many of his companions.
He joined the defense of his kingdom, and died
alongside the Red Cow chieftain Orkarl Belly-Laugh
at Caroman Pass — but unlike the Red Cow chieftain
no one brought Orlniskis back.

1590-1603 ORLNISKIS TWIST-FOOT

1603-1613 BROFIN THE BEARDLESS

Born in 1540, Orlniskis grew wealthy selling prized
horses to the households of every king in the Jonstown
Confederation. Orlniskis loved horses — astride
them he could forget his crippled foot, a defect he
was born with.
He killed his first Emerald Sword man at 17 when
he insulted him for being lame; he spent three years
in exile in Dorasar’s new city of Pavis for that killing.
After the Bitter Harvest Feud of 1564, in which
he struck the Seven Sad Blows, Orlniskis agreed to
marry the Emerald Sword woman Erinsulva FineHair to make “peace across the Creek.” When their
child Ivar Clubfoot was born, Erinsulva left him,
claiming that “One cripple was enough, two too
much.” Following that insult peace ended and the
Crippled Foot Feud brought bloodshed between the
clans for two more years. Exiled again for his part
in the killings, Orlniskis and his infant son lived
for seven years in exile in Tarsh. In exile, Orlniskis
was a mercenary in the service of King Phargentes
the Kingslayer of Tarsh. His son grew up in the
Lunarized streets of Furthest.
Orlniskis was an elder by the time he became
chieftain. The end of the struggle against the Empire
in Tarsh and the invasions of Sartar marked his
chieftaincy.
A son of the Sun, Orlniskis hated trolls and
often led raids into Dagori Inkarth. One time, he
sponsored an expedition to drive the Sazdorf troll

After the Empire took Dangerford, the clan elected
Brofin as chieftain.
The clan’s troubles with the Fox clan of the
Dinacoli plagued the clan during his chieftaincy.
The men north of the Creek embraced the Empire
and swaggered with entitlement. Between 1608
and 1610 Brofin fought the White Foal War with
the Fox clan.
Brofin felt that Garralor, the Cinsina king
had betrayed the kingdom of Sartar by refusing
to back Starbrow’s Rebellion. With his companions, he ambushed the king’s household when it
entered Dangerford. Brofin and his companions
fled retribution.
Hallarax the Last Orlanthi says the clan is cursed
because of the blood that Brofin spilt that day and
is doomed to tear itself apart in kinstrife unless
they can atone.

1613-1616 GOOD ARNAL
Good Arnal was an Orlanthi chieftain, who hid his
worship behind that of Barntar. He tried to repair the
clan after the troubled ending of Brofin’s chieftaincy.
He believed the greatest threat to the clan was the
ambitious Emerald Sword clan, who like the other
Dinacoli had made alliance with the Empire.
Good Arnal always had trouble on the Dinacoli
Flats. The Emerald Sword clan was always raiding
and Arnal had to fight the Three Widows feud.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 5

THE KILLING OF GARRALOR
Many in the Cinsina perceived their king as a
Lunar turncoat — the Empire’s missionaries
traveled as part of Garralor’s household and so
he obliged the clans to offer them hospitality
too. The clans reviled the sight of the Lunar
priestess Martara, who warmed Garralor’s bed

It was Arnal who led the clan to make peace
with the Empire, so that they might enjoy the same
advantages as their neighbors across the Creek. He
welcomed their traders into Dangerford market and
hired Tarshite mercenaries to ensure the northern
merchants felt safe. Some loyal Orlanthi accused him
of selling the clan to the Empire, and Arnal became
increasingly withdrawn, relying on Ivar, Orlniskis’
son, and Ivar’s Red Cow wife, Morganeth, for counsel.
Good Arnal disappeared in 1616, after Ivar
Quickstep, Twisted Morganeth and Gudny GoldLamb usurped his chieftaincy and staked him out for
Orlanth’s judgment. His body has never been found.
Some say he fled the clan in shame for having betrayed
his ancestors, others that the Telmori took him.

1616+ IVAR QUICKSTEP
In 1597, Ivar Clubfoot won the Red Cow’s Summer
Queen rites. His deformed foot was healed by Heler’s

and whispered in his ear. Brofin ambushed the
king’s household when they entered Dangerford.
Brofin and his companions went south to the
Holy Country after that, but no one in the Cinsina
knows their fate.

rain and he took the hand of Morganeth, which made
peace between the Red Cow and the Dolutha, whose
relationship had been fractious for years.
Ivar wants to return the Dolutha to the leadership
of the Cinsina. He reminds his kin that they are
‘oldest of the Cinsina, first settlers along the Creek’
tells them to demand the respect that has for too
long gone to the Red Cow.
Sensing Broddi Strong-Kin’s weakness Ivar has
encouraged cattle raids against Red Cow as well as
the ‘old enemy’ the Dinacoli. An attempt by Broddi
Strong-Kin to send Ivar gifts and improve relations,
ended with Orlmakt Nine-Winds breaking Ferfal’s
Fire, a sacred spear, and part of the clan regalia.
Orlmakt fled justice, and Ivar spurned the Red
Cow’s offer of friendship.
The broken regalia have never been restored and
the resulting impact on the clan’s Sacred Time rituals
has further contributed to the “Doom of the Dolutha.”

THE THREE WIDOWS
FEUD
The feud began in
1614, when Rostakus
Twice-Outlawed of the
Emerald Sword killed
Hendath the Lame in a
raid on Dangerford.
The feud escalated
after Dara RavenTressed, a Dolutha girl,
eloped with Silkinister
Curly-Beard, an
Emerald Sword man.
Dara’s brother, Starkor
Quick-Blade, and
her father, Varanvil
Many-Horses took her
back, killing Silkinister.
Dara fled, taking
refuge with Rostakus
Twice-Outlawed and
demanding bloodvengeance against
her own kin for her
husband’s murder.
After two-score deaths,
Jomes put a stop to
the feud, fearing that
the road between
Dangerford and AldaChur was becoming
dangerous to travelers
due to the risk of
being caught up in the
killings. The clans exiled
many of those involved
for three years, under
Jomes’ instruction, to
allow tempers to cool.
Tempers still run
high, and with many
involved due to return
in 1618 few hold out
hope for peace.

The Dolutha

87

• Chapter 6 •

DISTANT KIN
THE DISPUTED
LANDS
The Disputed Lands are
a no-man’s land between
the Cinsina, Culbrea,
Jomeslanders and
Telmori tribes. South of
the Red Cow clan and
north of the Two-Pine
clan of the Culbrea
this is a wild and
uncultivated area. The
stag and boar hunting is
good and hunters from
the three tribes often
clash here.

White Crow Inn at Cinsin Bridge, where the
OTHERCLANSOFTHE The
King’s Road crosses the Lorthing River is a wellliked rest stop for travelers. To the north of this inn
CINSINA
lies the isle of Raven’s Ait, amidst the confluence

T

his book provides less detail on the on
the other clans of the Cinsina. Some of this
is due to space considerations. It also allows
you to exercise your creativity, by adding flesh to the
bones here. Game Masters who want the players to
come from their own clan, instead of the Red Cow,
can flesh out one of these clans as the home of their
players instead. Game Masters who want to provide
new rivals and allies can add them to these clans.

BLUEBERRY
The Blueberry clan lands are famed for the field of
magic berries that make them rich. Fordstone is one
of the wealthiest villages among the Cinsina, much of
its wealth coming from the annual blue berry harvest.
The Blueberry clan lands runs between the Danda
Creek and Lorthing River, north of the Jonstown
to Jarolar Keep Road and south of the Dolutha.
They and their southern neighbors, the Greenhaft
were once part of the Culbrea, but have moved to
the Cinsina tribe since Starbrow’s Rebellion. The
Culbrea regard the Blueberry as ‘traitors’ to the tribe.
There are 1081 people in the Blueberry, 596 of
them are adults, of whom 96 are elders, and 485 of
them are children.

IMPORTANT PEOPLE
Chieftain: Edrath the Wise
Chief Priest: Dilfaran Chest-Butter
Chief Priestess: Venharla Plow-Priestess
Healer: Areni Alynx-Daughter
Lawspeaker: Fistivos the Wise
Warband Leader: Destoral the Short

FRITHAN
The Frithan clan occupies lands between the Boranini
and Lorthing Rivers. The King’s Road from AldaChur to Boldhome passes through the heart of their
clan lands. Their chieftain’s village at Frithan lies
next to the King’s Road near the Boranini River.

88

of the Lorthing and Boranini rivers, sacred to the
tribe and where the tribal ring meets. To the south
the Frithan clan lands extends north of Jonstown.
West of the Boranini, the Frithan’s neighbor is the
Underwillow clan of the Cinsina. To the east, across
the Lorthing River, the Dolutha clan of the Cinsina is
their neighbor and to the south, the Blueberry clan,
now of the Cinsina is their neighbor in Fortin Vale.
The Frithan are a War Clan and the most warlike
of the Cinsina clans. Remittances from members of
the clan serving with mercenary companies can be an
important source of income to the clan in lean years.
A small clan, the Frithan numbers some 650
people, of whom 60 are elders, and 290 children.

IMPORTANT PEOPLE
Chieftain: Hingot Twice-Outlawed
Chief Priest: Orldarmon Hide-Of-Ox
Chief Priestess: Yrsa Herd-Rich
Healer: Minarika the Lark
Lawspeaker: Enent Snow-Whiskers
Warband Leader: Ranulf Shield-Wall

GREENHAFT
The Greenhaft clan occupies the lands between
the Danda Creek and Lorthing River, north of the
Jarolar Trail, with a northern border with the Frithan
clan and a southern border in Fortin Vale with the
Two-Pine clan of the Culbrea. To the north, they
are neighbors to the Blueberry clan.
Greenhaft is also the small town, at a good fording
point of the Lorthing River, north of Dwarf Ridge
along the Jarolar Trail. This town is the seat of the
clan, and they have profited from the trade that
flows along the trail.
When the Greenhaft chieftain, Jost Bronze-Side
refused to help Kallyr, Orngerin Thundercape, his
warband leader, left the clan to follow her. He took
many members of the clan’s warband with him.
Calling themselves the Last Breeze Orngerin’s band
took to the Quivin Hills. Some of the clan idealizes
the Last Breeze as rebels but others curse them as

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 6

Distant Kin

89

90

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 6

BLUEBERRIES (Smilax Gloranthus)
The Blueberry clan lands are home to a trailing prickly vine,
with heart shaped shiny leaves and blue berries that grow in
impenetrable thickets, and as a vine across trees and other
plants. The plant is very resistant to damage, growing back
after being cut down or consumed by fire.
Many parts of the plant are used for food and medicine.
The roots of the plant are bitter, sticky, and strong smelling.
Boiled and dried they provide an extract which can be used
in small amounts as a flavoring for drinks, or, in greater
amounts, as a cure for menstrual pain, bladder or kidney
infections, anxiety, and heart pain.
The blue berries are rubbery with a large round seed. The
vine bears berries throughout the winter. The juice acts as
a painkiller, and is mildly euphoric. Some people become
addicted to ‘blue juice,’ usually identifiable by a blue stain
on the lips and tongue.

bandits. The truth is somewhere in between. Jorst spits on the floor
whenever Orngerin’s name is mentioned and will have nothing to
do with Kallyr’s rebellion.
There are 800 people in the Greenhaft, 450 of them are adults,
of whom 70 are elders, and 350 of them are children.

IMPORTANT PEOPLE
Chieftain: Jost Bronze-Side
Chief Priest: Haren Snow-Drift
Chief Priestess: Neva Many-Cow
Healer: Korli Copper-Kettle
Lawspeaker: Taren Sword-Tongue
Warband Leader: Korlmaran the Bold

GOODHAVEN
The Goodhaven occupy Goodhaven Vale south of Jonstown Hill,
between the Brambleberry Hills and Dwarf Ridge.
The Goodhaven clan of the Cinsina has grown rich from
the trade that passes through their lands between Jonstown and
Boldhome. The settlements of Goodhaven and Sunshine Inn are
regular stopping points for caravans heading to or from Boldhome
along the King’s Road, before they climb into the mountain pass
or emerge into the foothills.
The Goodhaven refused to follow their king, Hofstaring
Treeleaper, to war during Starbrow’s Rebellion and were cursed
by that powerful hero. Fazzur Wideread placed them under the
protection of the Cinsina tribe.
The Goodhaven continue to worship Orlanth in the traditional manner.
Their chieftain Kos the Thunder respects Queen Ivartha as a
Telmori fighter, but enjoys a good friendship with Ivar Quickstep
as well.
There are 1200 people in the Goodhaven, 661 of them are
adults, of whom 120 are elders, and 539 of them are children.

The Blueberry dryad lives in a sacred grove at Berryhall.
Ancient pacts, agreed when the Blueberry clan’s ancestors
settled this land, ensure the blueberries continue to flourish
here. Only the Ernaldan priestess of the clan is permitted
to enter the grove and commune with the dryad, although
an Orlanthi Wind Lord may enter on instruction from the
priestess, to offer the dryad his aid for whatever troubles
her plants or grove.
As a result, the vines do not grow outside these lands and
only the Blueberry clan can cultivate them, grown across
trellises on terraced south facing slopes. Blueberry Beer is
a non-alcoholic flavored drink with a birchy flavor made
from the root extract, popular across the Cinsina tribe and
in Jonstown. The House of Peace is a customer for both the
root and for ‘blue juice’ using it to ease the pain of patients,
but traders come to buy from across Sartar and beyond.

RAVEN’S AIT
This island, where the Lorthing and Boranini Rivers join,
is the meeting place for the Cinsina tribal council. The
island is large, some 800’ long and 160’ wide, covered in
grasses, and willow trees. At the north end of the island
a ring of thirteen standing stones marks the location of
the tribal council meeting. A small wooden temple at
the northern end of the island used to hold the tribes’
Orlanth Rex Statues with the Fire Altar before the doors.
The temple has not been used since the Empire repressed
worship of Orlanth and the statues are hidden elsewhere.
The southern end of the island is used when the tribe
gathers for the moot. A large boulder acts as the law
rock, from where the tribal lawspeaker recites the law.
This is a sacred space and the Frithan clan prevents
access through the rest of the year, making the land a
haven for all sorts of wildlife. In particular, ravens nest
here, which the Frithan clan regard as a good omen.

IMPORTANT PEOPLE
Chieftain: Kos the Thunder
Chief Priest: Kagrad Blacktooth
Chief Priestess: Beva the Beautiful
Healer: Nevalessa First-Daughter
Lawspeaker: Ketil Heavy-Wyr
Warband Leader: Gralor Crow-Nose

UNDERWILLOW
The Underwillow clan occupies the lands between the Boranini
River and the Yelm Creek, bordered on the north by the Creek
and to the south extending to the southern tips of Larnste’s

Distant Kin

91

THE TABLE RACES
The Underwillow clan organizes races at Larnste’s Table
on Freezeday, Waterday, and Clayday of Fire Season, just
before the annual tribal festivities at the end of the week.
Larnste is the god of motion and these races celebrate
motion in all its forms range from the competitive foot,
horse, alynx, hawk, and chariot races through extreme
events like climbing and bull running to the novelty rubble
runner races. The events are both cross-country and on
a flat track with the purse for the winner provided by a
wealthy thane, elder, or chieftain with the race then being
named is his honor. People come from all over Sartar to
participate or watch, particularly from the Cinsina and
Malani tribes, and Jonstown. A tented city appears on
Larnste’s Table as everyone sleeps out, and entrepreneurs
sell accommodation spaces to those who have none.
Food sellers and tinkers hawk their wares in improvised
markets, brewers sell kegs of ale, and entertainers such
as the Puppeteer Troupes attend to provide entertainment
in the evenings when the races stop. Gambling on the
outcome of the races is endemic but few win or lose fortunes here. Entertainment is the order of the day, or the
chance to meet distant kin, or find new marriage partners.

92

Table. To the south, the Lysang clan of the Malani lives in the
Larnste Hills, to the west, the Isolting clan of the Malani. The
Underwillow was one of the core clans of the Sanchali tribute
and has a long and troubled history with the Malani. Malani
kings from Two-Ridge fort have often imposed tribute upon
the Underwillow clan.
The Underwillow have the hilliest land of all the Cinsina clans
and the other clans often refer to them as ‘rich in sheep’ which
is another way of saying poor. The clan has long been widely
respected as the caretakers of the holy places atop Larnste’s Table.
The Underwillow is strongly traditional Orlanthi and used to derive
much wealth from clans seeking the blessing of the Unfettered
One. They have lost much of that income since the Empire closed
access to the temple and posted guards.
There are a 1000 people in the Underwillow, 550 of them are
adults, of whom 90 are elders, and 450 children.

IMPORTANT PEOPLE
Chieftain: Fedarkos Many-Breath
Chief Priest: Koroldos Peak-Flyer
Chief Priestess: Elnoressa the Wily
Healer: Orkassi Marrowbone
Lawspeaker: Brygghel Many-Kin
Warband Leader: Enderos the Spike

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 6

• Chapter 7 •

THE TWO-PINE
THE BLOODY SWORDS
The Two-Pine clan of the Culbrea is the troublesome southern
neighbor of the Red Cow. The Two-Pine are a War Clan. Tribute,
raiding, and war supplement meager incomes from farming.
Each summer, when farm labors end, the Two-Pine thanes rally
men to their banners seeking plunder, service in other’s wars,
and tribute.
The Two-Pine’s origins lie in the struggle against the Telmori.
The Two-Pine formed from the survivors of the Stonewater and
Kortyrling clans, who the Telmori broke in 1463. The remnants
formed a War Clan to take the fight to the Telmori, and fought
for other clans against the wolfmen in return for coin. The Seven
Tributes have their origin in the payments made by clans to the
Two-Pine for protection from the Telmori.

THE FALL OF THE CULBREA
When General Fazzur defeated Kallyr Starbrow, the Culbrea king,
Ranulf Turn-Tail, earned his nickname by fleeing when Lunar
demons dragged Hofstaring Treeleaper into Hell. The Empire
keeps Ranulf in power, as king of the Culbrea, believing him
cowed. Jomes is satisfied with his scrupulous and even servile
obedience to their every demand, however humiliating. Because
of this cooperation, King Ranulf ’s hall in Fox Hollow is rich and
his hospitality substantial, even if a melancholy suffuses the tribe.
Many of the clans did not want to follow a loser, who had
fled when his king fell. Those who were neighbors to Cinsina
clans, and had kin amongst them, found it the easiest to break
from the Culbrea. The Lunars encouraged this, eager to shatter
this troublesome tribe, rewarding defecting clans with ‘cloaks
and pigs.’
King Ranulf remains unhappy that these clans are part of the
Cinsina, and is keen to see them return to the fold. However, the
clans have prospered under Queen Ivartha, and while she enjoys
success they remain unconvinced that they should return.

THE SEVEN TRIBUTES
To use their clan’s magic the Two-Pine clan must succeed each year
at the Seven Tributes — a This World heroquest. However, the clan
chieftain has not dared to attempt it since Starbrow’s Rebellion,
fearing Cinsina or Lunar reprisals. The clan chafes under its failure
and many pressure the chieftain, Kulbrast Offirson.
The clan was once larger and more influential but the TwoPine were in the thick of the fighting during Starbrow’s Rebellion

and every family lost loved ones. Broddi Strong-Kin of the Red
Cow regularly uses the Two-Pine as an example of what rebellion
against the Empire brings.
Within the Two-Pine clan, many are increasingly resentful of
the loss of the Culbrea’s status to the Cinsina. ‘We do the dying,
while they get rich’ is a common complaint. ‘Kill them and take
their things,’ is the oft-heard solution.

THE CLAN
There are around 600 people in the Two-Pine clan. Of the 600
members of the clan, about 330 are adults and the rest are children;
of those adults, about 50 have lived long enough to become elders.
There are roughly equal numbers of men and women.
The clan supports about 90 thanes, including the ring and
priesthood. This is far more than usual for a clan of this size, but
as the Two-Pine is a War Clan the thanes make their living from
fighting — either serving as mercenaries or extracting tribute
from the neighbors.
Much of the clan lives in the village of Horse Rest on the road
between Jarolar Keep and Jonstown. The remaining few members
of the clan live in isolated steads along Two-Pine Ridge.
After Starbrow’s Rebellion, the clan avoided conflict with the
neighbors in favor of taking coin for military service in the many
conflicts in Dragon Pass. Three years ago Two-Pine’s thanes even
led men in service of the Empire during the Grazelands campaign
of 1615.
The Two-Pine clan is sometimes known by other names, the
Gwandor and the Jotoring.
The Two-Pine lands are Two-Pine Ridge and the lands to the
north of the ridge and south of the Jonstown to Jarolar Keep

HOFSTARING TREELEAPER gsW
Hofstaring was the greatest king the Culbrea ever had.
Over 100 years old when he fought in Starbrow’s Rebellion,
he was famous for his leaping ability and his incredible
magic spear Chest-Breaker that fought on its own. He
was almost killed when the Empire sacked Boldhome but
escaped with his leap. Beloved by the Storm God, King
Hofstaring summoned the great flood that destroyed the
Lunar Army before the Hill of Orlanth Victorious. It is a
source of great shame for the Culbrea that Hofstaring’s
soul suffers in a Lunar Hell rather than serving as a thane
of the gods as he deserves.

The Two-Pine

93

Road. To the south lies the Lorthing Vale, home of the Culbri and
Barlamani clans of the Culbrea. To their west lies the Greenhaft
clan, a former Culbrea clan that joined the Cinsina. To their east
lies the Lorthing clan, another Culbrea clan. To the north, the
Two-Pine’s long border touches another Culbrea turncoat the
Blueberry, along with its old enemy the Red Cow clan.
The Two-Pine’s clan lands are hill-country where the land slopes
up from the flatlands of the Cinsina to the Quivin Mountains.
It is a harsh land of rocky slopes and steep valleys, little suited to
the plow, though the clan keeps sheep.

THE BLOODLINES
There are four Two-Pine bloodlines.
• Two bloodlines trace their descent from the Stonewater and
Kortyrling clans, named after the former clans.
• The Greatblade bloodline, centered on Death Hollow,
have a long tradition of following Humakt. The Greatblade
bloodline is famous for the struggles of its leader Findar
Longsword. Findar became the chieftain of the Two-Pine
following the Lunar invasion. He led the clan in resistance
to the Empire. Following the failure of Starbrow’s Rebellion,
he was outlawed, along with many of his household. This
bloodline has been weak ever since.

• Unusually, the Valan bloodline have grown rich not from
war, but from acting as intermediaries. They negotiate the
contracts for Two-Pine mercenaries and sell their plunder
in the markets of Jonstown. Many complain that the Valan
grow fat, while everyone else gets thinner.

CULTS OF THE TWO-PINE
Orlanth gsW — 140 initiates, 2 devotees
Vinga gsW — 35 initiates
Ernalda exl — 105 initiates, 3 devotees
Humakt ty — 15 initiates, 1 devotee
Urox Vg — 15 initiates
Yinkin Y — 5 initiates
Odayla gC — 5 initiates
Issaries hs — 5 initiates
Kolat bg — 3 Spirit Society members
Valind gc — 2 initiates

TWO-PINE WYTER:
GREATBLADE tW
When the Telmori crossed the Creek, and fell upon the Stonewater
and Kortyrling, the clanfolk were beaten back, all but annihilated, and even the ragged band of survivors looked doomed.
To save them Orlrik Greatblade undertook a terrifying Humakti

THE SEVEN TRIBUTES
To use their community Magic Resource the Two-Pine must
take Seven Tributes from one Sacred Time to the next. During
Kulbrast’s chieftaincy, the clan has never taken all the seven
tributes and has lost access to its magic.

THE TEN‑CART TRIBUTE
This tribute is taken from the Barlamani of the Culbrea for
protection from the Cinsina. The Barlamani will only pay it
if the Two-Pine have amassed the other tributes and are a
War Clan.

THE BLUEBERRY TRIBUTE
The Two-Pine saved the Blueberry tribe from the Telmori. After
that, the Blueberry paid the Two-Pine a basket of blueberries
for every wolf pelt. Since the Blueberry clan transferred to
the Cinsina this tribute has not been paid.

THE LORTHING GOLD TRIBUTE
The Lorthing gave the Two-Pine gold when they helped them
win their lands. When Thegil the Bloody of the Two-Pine
demanded that the Lorthing continue to pay them the gold
annually, the Lorthing refused. A bloody feud developed
which almost destroyed the Lorthing until they agreed to
pay an annual tribute to the Two-Pine. The Lorthing have
not paid since Starbrow’s Rebellion. Many Two-Pine believe
they owe the arrears.

94

THE WOLF PELT TRIBUTE
Every year the Two-Pine sent men into the Wolf Hills, every
year they returned with wolf pelts. Since the Lorthing took
Jarolar Keep, the Two-Pine have not raided the wolfmen.
Jomes is keen to employ the Two-Pine to hunt wolves on
his border and Kulbrast is considering his offer.

THE BLOODY SWORD TRIBUTE
Seven weapons must be taken from foes killed in a raid on
a single clan, from those who fought against the Two-Pine.
Typically, the Two-Pine raid the Aranwyth or the Cinsina
clans for this.

THE RED COW TRIBUTE
This is taken from the Red Cow clan of the Cinsina. The
Two-Pine joined with other clans and stole so many cattle
from the Red Cow that they appealed to Sartar for help. He
organized this tribute saying that “No one can make you
do anything but they can buy you!” The Red Cow has not
paid this tribute since Starbrow’s Rebellion.

THE FIRED THATCH TRIBUTE
The Greenhaft paid this to settle an ancient feud that saw
their villages burnt by Two-Pine raiders in revenge for a
drunken brawl. The Greenhaft stopped paying the tribute
of gold and fine goods when they joined the Cinsina.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 7

ritual. He sacrificed the Stonewater clan’s fertility
to empower his warriors and himself, and showed
that Humakt’s killing magic worked as well against
werewolves as men.
Orlrik founded a new clan out of the survivors
of the Stonewater and Kortyrling clans. Supported
by his household, he consecrated a shrine on the
site of the Humakti ritual. Nothing grew there now,
so the people called the holy spot Death Hollow.
After that, Orlrik walked into Death Hollow,
following a vision from his god, and vanished. The
clan found his greatsword rammed into the ground
at the edge of the Hollow. Since that time, the sword
has contained Greatblade’s spirit, ready to lead his
people in battle.

POLITICAL FACTIONS
There are three major factions in Two-Pine politics.
• The Righteous Wind supports the rebellion.
Inspired by Kallyr Starbrow they strive to free
the kingdom. They cajole, persuade, and bully
those who have not thrown their weight behind
Kallyr. They despise all Lunars and are keen to
see them driven from the kingdom. The fanatics among them do not even distinguish about
the good that some, like Jomes, might do.
• The Conquering Storm seeks to exact tribute
from the Cinsina and Aranwyth. Injured pride
and hard economics drive their need to raid
them for plunder and tribute. The turncoat
clans of Blueberry, Greenhaft, and Goodhaven
are ripe for the plucking. It is time for the
Two-Pine to teach them why they should
never have left the Culbrea, and why the
Cinsina cannot protect them.
• The Eye of the Hurricane tries to preserve
the status quo. The Two-Pine are too weak
to fight with their neighbors or the Empire.
They seek to husband the Two-Pine’s strength.
With time, perhaps the Two-Pine will be great
again. For now, they should seek to hold onto
what they have.

IMPORTANT PEOPLE
OF THE TWO-PINE
THE TWO-PINE RING
Chieftain: Kulbrast Offirson
Ernalda: Isbarnessa Boarscar
Barntar: Orstalor Ironplow
Odayla: Temertain Longnose

Issaries: Malan Hardbargain
Uralda: Leika Cow-Wise
Champion: Darkot Strong-Thewed
Kulbrast Offirson is unpopular with the young
men of the Two-Pine clan. He has avoided taking
the Seven Tributes and the young men say that
the Two-Pine’s neighbors no longer hold them in
respect. Instead, counseled by Isbarnessa Boarscar,
Kulbrast negotiates, compromises, and seeks peace
with the neighbors, sending the young men to
fight far away, even for the hated Empire. The
young men respond that outsiders say that women
rule the Two-Pine now. The younger generation
calls for a return to the ‘old days of bronze and
blood.’ Kulbrast faces a stark choice. Accede to
their demands to raid, or risk losing the chieftaincy.
Orstalor Ironplow supports Isbarnessa and seeks a
new way for the clan, turning aside from the path
of war — his path is difficult without heroquesting
to change the clan, and the young men do not
listen to him. Malan Hardbargain is pragmatic;
the Empire has crushed the rebels before and will
do so again — the clan’s future lies in cooperation.
Leika Cow-Wise would win tribute from the Red
Cow again, and provide cows for the clan’s altars and
beef on the clan’s plates. Darkot Strong-Thewed
has withdrawn from clan life, disappointed that a
once famous clan seems to be have lost its heart and
soul. He distracts himself with a crusade against
King Brangbane to avoid uncomfortable questions
about the future.

CLAN CHIEFTAIN:
KULBRAST OFFIRSON gWc
A bulky warrior with a grim demeanor, Kulbrast wants
to do the best for his clan. For years, he has settled
conflicts, sought another way, and woven peace.
His instincts are to lead his clan to collect the
Seven Tributes, but because he is a realist, he keeps
them at home, worrying and fretting for the future.
He wants to preserve his clan’s famous name, yet he
wants to see the people live prosperous lives.
Wracked with indecision, he waits. All he needs
is someone to jolt him in the right direction, and
he might take the clan back to its traditional ways.
For now, his warriors serve rich merchants, distant
quarreling kings, and the Empire.
He listens to the counsel of his wife Isbarnessa
Boarscar. Were he to change direction, she would
be furious. Darkot Strong-Thewed holds out hope
for Kulbrast returning the Two-Pine to greatness
and the two get drunk together regularly, much to
Isbarnessa’s disgust.
He despises Orlmarl the Charioteer, but can do
little against his rival’s popularity without giving
in to the calls of the young men. Kulbrast is afraid

The Two-Pine

RESTORING THE
STONEWATER
Isbarnessa Boarscar
would like to change
the Two-Pine back to a
Balanced Clan from a
War Clan.
One option would be to
simply to split the clan
and form a new one —
finding a new wyter
to lead the new clan.
Isbarnessa has considered
this, but does not want
to separate kin from
each other.
The other is performing
the Lightbringers’
Quest to resurrect the
Stonewater wyter and
‘heal’ Death Hollow.
Such a ritual would
require significant
magical support, and
still might result in those
who were not happy
with the change leaving
the clan. It is unlikely
that the Two-Pine or
Culbrea would offer
support for this — but
a desperate Red Cow
or Blueberry might —
in order to turn their
enemies away from the
Seven Tributes.

95

THE TWO-PINE RING
From left to right: Kulbrast Offirson, Isbarnessa Boarscar, Malan Hardbargain,
Darkot Strong-Thewed, Orlmarl the Charioteer

of Findar Longsword, the charismatic former chieftain who is a
legend to the young men of the clan. Every year a few Two-Pine
youngsters drift away to join Findar in exile, becoming the latest
recruits to his Black Hill Band.
Kulbrast Offirson gWc
Bloodline: Stonewater
Faction: Eye of the Hurricane

enemies within the clan, who see Isbarnessa as the clan’s jailer. She
believes herself the reason the clan has not been destroyed during
the Occupation.
Malan Hardbargain and Orstalor Ironplow are friends and
allies in her quest to move the Two-Pine away from being a War
Clan. Isbarnessa considers that the clan might even heroquest to
change its nature, putting aside war in favor of a more balanced
mix of Earth and Storm.

Age: 45

Isbarnessa Boarscar elW

Keywords: Chieftain

Bloodline: Stonewater

Magic: Initiate of Orlanth g

Faction: The Eye of the Hurricane

Look: Broken-nose, grim-faced, tall, and well-muscled

Age: 42
Keywords: Priestess

ERNALDA:
ISBARNESSA BOARSCAR elW
Isbarnessa, the priestess of Ernalda, is strongly resolved to keep
the clan alive through peace. A ferocious boar left her with scars
that ruined her face.
The chieftain’s wife, she is able to bend Kulbrast to her will
and delights in her power to make her husband do her bidding.
Isbarnessa hears the young men’s talk of glory and honor, but
cajoles and browbeats them into obedience.
She dominates the Women’s Circle. She uses her influence with
the clan’s wives and mothers to restrain the men. The young men
resent the way she controls their fathers and uncles. She has many

96

Magic: Devotee of Ernalda l
Look: Golden broaches, scarred face, soft-voice

ISSARIES:
MALAN HARDBARGAIN hgi
This Issaries Trader has increased his influence since the clan
stopped taking tribute from its neighbors. Although his major
trade is in the services of his clan’s swords, Malan has done much
to bring needed silver to the clan’s chests. Malan is above petty
tribal jealousies in negotiating contracts for the clan’s mercenaries;
he has also proved that he is not above working with the Empire.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 7

The young men appreciate the need for Malan’s services, but many
dislike him because he does not fight himself, and they question
whether he would fulfill the contracts he arranges.
Malan regards his perspective as that of the realist. Talk of
rebellion, honor, and glory resulted in spilt Two-Pine blood, but
nothing else. Malan knows that if the Two-Pine are to survive,
the price of its young men’s blood must be measured in silver, not
glory. He is allied with Isbarnessa Boarscar.
Malan knows many ‘movers and shakers’ from his work. He
is known to Jomes for his pragmatism, particularly his support in
the Grazelands campaign. Darningle and Darvast Hornos often
employ Two-Pine caravan guards and Malan is a regular at their
Jonstown house (see Sartar Companion, page 13). He often visits
the Wilmskirk merchant prince, Gold-Gotti. Ostensibly such visits
are to sell Two-Pine’s spears, but Malan is also part of Gold-Gotti’s
‘Two-Penny’ spy network, a fact he hides from the clan.

drive the ghouls out of Sartar. He continues to try to raise enough
numbers for an expedition against the ghouls.

Malan Hardbargain hgi

Look: Gray haired, his face is covered with lines and
scars of a hundred battles. He never laughs

Bloodline: Valan

Darkot Strong-Thewed tgW
Bloodline: Greatblade
Faction: The Conquering Storm
Age: 28
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Devotee of Humakt t
Gifts: His shout can strike fear into enemy hearts — his
voice frightens children and animals. Strikes wounds
that don’t heal (only magic not time can aid recovery
from injuries sustained from losing a fight with Darkot).
Geas: Cannot be healed by magic, only time.

Faction: The Eye of the Hurricane

THANE:
ORLMARL THE CHARIOTEER gst

Age: 28
Keywords: Merchant
Magic: Initiate of Issaries h
Look: Narrow face, long nose, tall and thin

CHAMPION:
DARKOT STRONG-THEWED tgW
Darkot Strong-Thewed is the Sword of the Death Hollow temple
of Humakt. His devotion to his god makes both animals and
children nervous in his presence and the women shoo him away
from pregnant mothers in case they miscarry. Garden flowers wilt
when he is near and the healer allows him nowhere near her house.
Darkot despises the way the Two-Pine have lost their teeth.
He blames Isbarnessa for weakening the traditions of the clan;
he believes that he can turn Kulbrast back to the old path. He
looks to the next generation to reclaim the Two-Pine birthright.
The more he sees the failure of the Two-Pine to keep to their
old traditions, the more time he spends away from the clan,
working for the tribal king, the Jonstown temple, or the Sword
Hill congregation.
Darkot has become obsessed with the threat from the Woods
of the Dead, and King Brangbane, seeing it as a Humakti’s duty to

Orlmarl the Charioteer spends most of his year at Fox Hollow in
service of the king, only returning to Horse Rest for the winter.
Orlmarl has served as charioteer to both Hofstaring Treeleaper and
Ranulf Turn-Tail. This is mainly a ceremonial position, though
Hofstaring did take his chariot to battle.
Orlmarl has a lean and wiry frame, and is very tall. His skin
is azure, and marked him for Mastakos from an early age. At
his physical peak, Orlmarl excels at athletic activities: chariot
driving, javelin throwing, jumping, running, riding, swimming,
and wrestling, loving to resolve disputes with a contest of some
sort or another. He speaks quickly, and people have some trouble
keeping up; he seems filled with nervous energy.
A Wind Lord of Orlanth, Orlmarl follows Mastakos the
Charioteer. He can always leap back to Orlanth’s Hill of Victory
and knows the leaping magic that made Hofstaring famous, along
with the famous Sunset Leap.
The Red Cow killed Orlmarl’s brother, Hallarax at the Battle of
the Finger. Of the seven killers, five still live: Farandar Orendalsson,
Kernalda Other-Ways, Ortossi Ketilsson, Rangard Pride-of-theMead-Bench, and Jarstak Bristle-Beard. The other two are dust
and ash, Orlmarl killed them, and spent three years in exile in
Pavis for each. He has spent six years out of the last seven in exile,

INDEX OF TWO-PINE NPCS
Name

Position

Bloodline

Faction

Page

Kulbrast Offirson

Chieftain

Stonewater

Eye of the Hurricane

95

Isbarnessa Boarscar

Ernalda

Stonewater

Eye of the Hurricane

96

Malan Hardbargain

Issaries

Valan

Eye of the Hurricane

96

Darkot Strong-Thewed

Champion

Greatblade

The Conquering Storm

97

Orlmarl the Charioteer

Thane

Greatblade

The Conquering Storm

97

The Two-Pine

97

for blood vengeance for his brother. Away from his children, the
hatred of a lesser man might have ebbed in that time, but not
Orlmarl — whose heart cries out for vengeance still.
Orlmarl does not care if Kulbrast supports him or not. On his
farm, he has strong brothers, grieving uncles, and loyal housecarls
who will back him in pursuing his blood feud. His sworn men
followed him willingly into exile in Pavis, and plundered the
ruins of the Big Rubble. Many furnished their own halls with
the treasure they gained there. Mercenaries hired by that wealth
drink at his table. They follow Orlmarl because he is a generous
leader who has brought fame and wealth to his men even in exile.
The young men look to Orlmarl, with his wealth, and his sworn
men and want to their own part of that destiny. They seek to join
his household, or emulate him by seeking fame and fortune abroad.
Many would back him as chieftain over Kulbrast — a fact not
lost on his chieftain. Whatever Kulbrast decides, Orlmarl desires
to ride to war with the Red Cow.
Only one man has ever come close to persuading Orlmarl
to put aside his vengeance and focus on bringing down the Red
Moon, Garrath Sharpsword, another Orlanthi exile, who saved
Ormarl’s life in the Big Rubble. Orlmarl still considers himself
in Garrath’s debt.
Orlmarl the Charioteer gst
Bloodline: Stonewater
Faction: The Conquering Storm
Age: 32

1590-1602 ULANIN IRON-SIDE
Ulanin returned to the clan from years of wandering, bearing the
iron corselet that gave him his name.
Ulanin led a reversal of the clan’s fortunes. He drove the
Telmori from Two-Pine Ridge in 1590 and 1591 and took the
Wolf Tribute for the first time in years. The Red Cow resisted, and
the Two-Pine inflicted a heavy defeat on them at the Battle of the
Finger. Following that he led the clan to take the Seven Tributes
in 1592, and for five of the other ten years of his chieftaincy after
that. Ulanin was often at Fox Hollow with his king, Hofstaring
Treeleaper, who counted Ulanin amongst his trusted advisers.
Ulanin died leading his warband in the defense of the kingdom
of Sartar, in support of King Hofstaring, who he loved so much.

1602-1607 HENDLAKAR THE SQUINTER
Hendlakar always hated the Telmori and happily led his people
on the Wolf Hunt. He died when the wolfmen he was tracking
led him and his household into an ambush.

1607-1611 ANDRIN THE UNINSPIRED
Andrin led his people on the Boar Hunt against the Tusk Riders
of the Stinking Forest, but there was little plunder to be had. He
never took the Seven Tributes, and the Blueberry and Red Cow
poets gave him his nickname.

1611-1614 FINDAR LONGSWORD

Keywords: Thane
Magic: Devotee of Orlanth — Mastakos
sub-cult s
Look: Shoulder length brown hair; azure blue skin;
beard braided into two forks; tall, over 7’ in height

TWO-PINE CHIEFTAINS
LIVING MEMORY
1574-77 KULESTAN THE RED
The Red Cow fought the Green Ale Feud with Kulestan the
Red, over the insulting drink the Red Cow’s emissaries, seeking
to escape paying the Red Cow Tribute, had been offered when
visiting Horse Rest.

1577-1582 KOSCHEI SURE-HANDED
Hofstaring Treeleaper led the tribe into Tarsh to fight alongside the
Old Tarshites against the Hon-eel dynasty. Koschei Sure-Handed
happily joined his king. Many clanfolk died, little treasure was
returned, and Koschei fell, along with many of the tribe at the
Battle of Grizzly Peak.

1582-1590 MANISKI THE LEAN
With too few thanes left after the disaster at Grizzly Peak to take
the Seven Tributes, Maniski shepherded a clan “poor in sheep,

98

poorer in warriors.” He died fighting the Telmori who plagued
the weakened clan and tried to steal what little they had.

Findar Longsword took the Seven Tributes each year from 1611
until 1613. The people loved him, because the Cinsina and
Aranwyth clans showed the Two-Pine respect again, and tribute
flowed into their halls. The Culbrea king Hofstaring Treeleaper
often visited with Findar Longsword calling him: “first chieftain
amongst the Culbrea.”
Findar Longsword joined his king, Hofstaring Treeleaper,
in defense of the Hill of Orlanth Victorious at the Battle of
Hofstaring’s Flood. The clan was amongst those who liberated
Boldhome at the beginning of Starbrow’s Rebellion. They took
part in the liberation of Jonstown and were amongst those camped
at Larnste’s Table when the rebels surrendered to the Lunar
Empire. When King Hofstaring was dragged into a Lunar Hell,
Findar Longsword could not forgive the Empire; he continued
to lead the clan’s warband in a campaign against the Empire,
raiding their supply lines. In the end the Lunars sent their troops
to Horse Rest; their troops killed many Two-Pine clanfolk that
day. Findar Longsword fled into hiding and is rumored to be in
hiding somewhere around Jonstown, where he leads the Black
Hill Band, a band of rebels.
The neighboring clans, long-suffering victims of the Two-Pine
and their Seven Tributes, did not mourn Longsword’s disappearance.

1614+ KULBRAST OFFIRSON
Kulbrast became chieftain because he was acceptable to the Empire,
after the troublemaking of Findar Longsword. Like many chieftains
after Starbrow’s Rebellion, he seeks to avoid conflict and the wrath
of the Empire, despite the urgings of his restless kin.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 7

• Chapter 8 •

THE EMERALD
SWORD
THE EMERALD
SWORD

bounded by Lake Aroka. The land here is flat and
the soil fertile, good for raising crops and fine horses.
The clan supports 120 thanes on the inner and
outer ring, some 360 carls, and 353 cottars.

T

CULTS OF THE
EMERALD SWORD

he Dinacoli and the Cinsina have long
been enemies. In 1458, King Illaro conquered
this region, pushing the clans of the Ferfal
Alliance south from the Donalf Flats across the
Creek. He then demanded that the shattered clans
pay tribute to Dinacol Hard-Rule. The Cinsina
resent their northern neighbor and the Dinacoli
king’s demands from Blueboar Fort for his Tarsh Tax.
The Donalf Flats, the lowlands between the
Quivin and Indigo Mountains are the most fertile
land in the east of Dragon Pass. Because of this
land the Dinacoli were once known as the ‘Wealthy
Tribe.’ They are still the wealthiest tribe because of
their fertile land and large size, but now they are
just called the ‘Fat Tribe’ by most people.
The tribes of the Donalf Flats, Far Place, and Tarsh
came from north of Dragon Pass. Their customs
and language are subtly different — just enough to
create suspicion and mistrust (see Sartar: Kingdom
of Heroes, pages 253-254).
The tribes of the Far Place were not even part
of Sartar’s kingdom at first, but of the kingdom of
Tarsh. The Dinacoli, along with the other tribes
of the Far Place only joined the kingdom in 1582
after the Battle of Grizzly Peak ended the dream
of a re-united Tarsh. The Dinacoli became part
of the Jonstown Confederation when they joined
the kingdom; and then betrayed their new brothers when the Lunars invaded. King Petrad of the
Dinacoli has given his allegiance to Duke Harvar
in Alda-Chur.

THE CLAN
There are around 1500 people in the Emerald Sword
clan. Of the members of the clan, about 833 are adults
and the rest are children; of those adults, about 134
have lived long enough to become elders. There are
roughly equal numbers of men and women. The
clan makes its living from agriculture.
The Emerald Sword lands are north of the Creek,
running along the border of the Red Cow clan and
to their east Wulfsland. To the northeast, they are

Ernalda exl — 262 initiates, 6 devotees
Seven Mothers x/t — 160 initiates
Barntar gF — 169 initiates, 2 devotees
Orlanth gsW — 108 initiates
Elmal .y — 25 initiates
Redalda .y — 20 initiates
Yinkin Y — 20 initiates
Vinga gsW — 15 initiates
Issaries hs — 15 initiates
Humakt ty — 11 initiates
Odayla gC — 9 initiates
Kolat bg — 9 Spirit Society members

EMERALD SWORD WYTER:
THE EMERALD SWORD VW
Made of iron, an emerald flashes from this sword’s
pommel — home to the clan wyter, Andrin RichHorses. Andrin was one of the royal tribe of the
Vingkotlings, the Kodigvari. He held firm to the
belief that a man could never have enough land,
enough cattle, or enough horses. He fought for
seven days at the Battle of High Jumps Ford, to
ensure that the great bull of Darworth was his. He
rode his horse at the head of the Sunflower Charge.
His sons inherited vast land, and lost it all in the
Helm and Sword war. When the chieftain carries
the Emerald Sword against the clan’s enemies the
cry is still “More land, more cattle, more horses!”

TARSHITE
The Emerald Sword
descends from people
who came south
to Tarsh, from the
Kynnelfing Alliance
fleeing the expanding
Lunar Empire. As such
their customs differ
from many of their
southern neighbors,
and they do not speak
the Southern Theyalan
of the Kingdom of
Sartar. Although
living in Sartar has
meant the Dinacoli
can speak Sartarite,
their speech is heavily
accented and sometimes
lacks idiomatic
understanding. This
only adds to the conflict
between the Dinacoli
and their southern
neighbors.

THE BLOODLINES
There are five Emerald Sword bloodlines.
• The Yerestaring and Asarting bloodlines are
the oldest within the Emerald Sword clan and
the most traditional. Few of its members have
converted to the Lunar religion, instead they
continue to hold faith with Orlanth. Duruvan
has taken lands and cattle from them and they

The Emerald Sword

99

are now the poorest bloodlines.
• The Ranosing, Sasaring, and Haloricing bloodlines have
prospered under the Red Moon, gaining lands and positions
that once went to the Yerestaring and Asarting bloodlines.
They are strong supporters of the Empire.

POLITICAL FACTIONS
There are three major factions in Emerald Sword politics.
• The Tarshite Loyalists believe this land should return to
the kingdom of Tarsh, accepting both the Hon-eel dynasty
of Tarsh and the Empire as part of that.
• The Ironfists faction supports the Empire, but wants to
remain independent of the kingdom of Tarsh. For now, they
throw in their lot with Duke Harvar Ironfist. While Harvar
supports the kingdom of Tarsh, he resists returning the Far
Place to King Pharandros.
• The Traditionalists retain their worship of Orlanth. Their
lands and cattle are forfeit to the converts, many now
work others land. Most remain loyal to Old Tarsh though
and not Sartar. The heart of their rebellion lies with the
Exiles around Wintertop, not Kallyr Starbrow’s Sartarite
nationalism.

IMPORTANT PEOPLE OF
THE EMERALD SWORD
THE EMERALD SWORD RING
Orlanth: Duruvan the Fat
Lhankor Mhy: Arnbord White-Leg
Chalana Arroy: Kallesra Sees-Tomorrow
Issaries: Helkan the Sleepy
Flesh Man: Randel the Straight
Eurmal: Rostakus Twice-Outlawed
Eighth: Tamara Little-Mouse
Duruvan the Fat leads the Emerald Sword ring. His interest is
in a peaceful future for his clan without conflict. The Emerald
Sword and Red Cow once feuded, but Broddi and Duruvan have
worked together to bring peace. They are alike — aged warriors
determined to bring the prosperity of peace to their clans. For
Duruvan such peace flows from the Empire, and he hopes he
can convince Broddi of that fact one day. Duruvan strives to
turn his clan from Orlanth to the Red Moon, through the Seven
Mothers. Kallesra Sees-Tomorrow welcomes the chieftain’s focus
on peace, and takes his lead in working to make peace with the
people to the south. Whereas Duruvan seeks to win ‘hearts and
minds’, Kallesra is more direct. She tries to build friendships with
the Seven Mothers’ worshippers among the Red Cow, convinced
that working from within is the way forward. She differs from
her chieftain in having far more loyalty to Tarsh than Harvar.
Rostakus Twice-Outlawed challenges Duruvan’s authority and
right to lead. For Rostakus peace is a sign of weakness. If the Red

100

Cow chieftain is weak and sues for peace, then the Emerald Sword
clan should just plunder them. He wants no peace with the Red
Cow and will find any excuse to raid.

CHIEFTAIN:
DURUVAN THE FAT 5tW
Duruvan is fat because of his wealth, not his physique. Those
expecting from his nickname to meet a pasty, tubby, middle-aged
man are surprised to meet an iron-haired warrior of strong physique; Duruvan might even be considered handsome were it not
for his broken-nose, ruined in a feud with the Red Cow and
never set properly.
Duruvan was a notorious raider in his youth, who loved
nothing more than stealing red cows from across the Creek. His
conversion to the Moon tempered him. Now Duruvan sees the
cost of war, and hears the pleas of the farmers for peace. With
such rich lands, he now contents himself to raise fine horses and
grain. He is slow to anger, patient, and measured in his speech.
Duruvan has learnt the art of negotiation, Ernalda’s Other Way,
is often more profitable than war.
It would be a mistake to see Duruvan as weak because of
that. Were he put to it, he would take up the Emerald Sword
and ride to war.
Duruvan the Fat 5tW
Bloodline: Ranosing
Faction: Ironfists
Age: 45
Keywords: Chieftain
Magic: Initiate of the Seven Mothers 5
Look: Broken-nose, grim-faced, tall, well-muscled

CHALANA ARROY:
KALLESRA SEES-TOMORROW 2lx
Kallesra’s work is her life. No walk is complete without her reciting
the names of all the plants and herbs along the route, and their
medicinal properties. When not in council, she can be found
working in her herb garden or on her rounds tending to the sick.
Her husband, Loricon Glad-Mood, and her own children are
frequently neglected for the rest of the clan.
Kallesra loves the peace that the Empire has brought. She sees
people living longer, and children with fuller bellies. She sees life
thriving.
When Kallesra looks across the Creek, her heart goes out to
the ‘foolish’ people who still follow Orlanth. She knows Ustarna
Try-Much of the Red Cow clan. The two often meet in secret, to
exchange herb lore and healing secrets. Kallesra hopes to persuade
Ustarna to convert to the Red Moon. So far Ustarna is unconvinced,
but Kallesra hopes to win her over.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 8

THE EMERALD SWORD RING
From left to right: Duruvan the Fat, Kallesra Sees-Tomorrow, Rostakus Twice-Outlawed, Korlmyhor the Swift

Kallesra Sees-Tomorrow 2lx
Bloodline: Haloricing
Faction: Tarshite Loyalists
Age: 28
Keywords: Healer
Magic: Initiate of the Seven Mothers 2
Look: Absent-minded, long dark hair, short, unkempt
appearance

EURMAL:
ROSTAKUS TWICE-OUTLAWED gtj
Rostakus is a drunk. He drinks to forget the men he has sent to
the urn-field, the wasted lives, the cry of battle, and the screams
of men missing limbs, holding back guts from spilling to the floor.
The clash of armies is a fool’s game where even the most skilled
swordsman can be taken in the side by a novice with a spear.
Far better that two men should fight out the issue in the duel’s
circle, where skill and bravery count more than luck. Far better, indeed,
that one man dies instead of many, when champions decide the day.
Despite his fondness for drink Rostakus is good company. He
possesses a wit and optimism even in the worst of circumstances.
His gallows humor is legendary. Once when caught by Red Cow
thanes attempting to swim his captured herd back across the Creek
he declared, “I only want the cows that are fast swimmers, the rest
you can have back.” He is also the master of one-liners in a duel,
mocking his opponent’s weaknesses and failings. Once, spotting

an obvious feint from Kernalda Other-Ways, he retorted “How
like a woman to change her mind.”
Rostakus is the scourge of the Cinsina, twice exiled for killing
Dolutha clansmen. He worked as a mercenary in Tarsh during his
exile, and still wears the glittering scale corselet that was a gift from
King Pharandros. Rostakus boasts that he still has the king’s ear.
He believes that he should be chieftain, not Duruvan. Duruvan
keeps him on the ring because he thinks that will appease the aggressive elements of the clan. Rostakus knows that it is not enough.
Big, tall, and strong Rostakus has an intimidating physical
presence that he uses whenever someone opposes him. Rostakus
believes that ‘might is right’ and has little time for mercy or kindness. He wields a large double-handed axe, and likes nothing more
than slicing the heads of Cinsina riders.
A rough man who plays rough games, Rostakus loves a good
game of kick-the-ball between villages, if the prize is right.
Rostakus would like to take blood vengeance on Tormal StandBeside of the Dolutha for the death of his friend Orldag in a battle
at Dangerford following a raid gone wrong.
Kallesra Sees-Tomorrow 2lx
Bloodline: Haloricing
Faction: Tarshite Loyalists Age: 45
Keywords: Mercenary
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth g
Look: Deep-voiced, scar from left eye to right-ear,
strong, tall

The Emerald Sword

101

INDEX OF EMERALD SWORD NPCS
Name

Position

Bloodline

Faction

Page

Duruvan the Fat

Chieftain

Ranosing

Ironfists

100

Kallesra Sees-Tomorrow

Chalana Arroy

Haloricing

Tarshite Loyalists

100

Rostakus Twice-Outlawed

Eurmal

Haloricing

Tarshite Loyalists

101

Warband Leader

Ranosing

Tarshite Loyalists

102

Korlmhyor the Swift

WARBAND LEADER:
KORLMHYOR THE SWIFT 5sK
As a young man, Korlmhyor fought against the Lunar Empire’s invasion of Sartar. He discovered that he loved to fight and hated to lose.
The arrival of the Empire was a culture shock. When he heard
tales of Yanafal Tarnils he knew he had found a new path and was
amongst the first in the clan to convert to the Seven Mothers
on ‘White Shirt Day’ — when the Empire gave new converts a
bleached linen shirt.
Korlmhyor has led the Emerald Sword as mercenaries for the
Empire in the Wolf Hunt, the Building Wall battle, and he fought
against Starbrow’s Rebellion. After that, he returned home. For a
while, he thought he had had enough of fighting and might settle
down but farming and raising horses was never enough, and he
began raiding the Cinsina and Torkani.
Korlmhyor realized that he lives for battle, the clash of bronze,
and the cries of the wounded. He does not know how to live at peace.

THE BITTER HARVEST FEUD
In 1564, Orlniskis Twist-Foot criticized Erinorth the Rider’s
conversion of many Elmali in the Emerald Sword to
Yelmalio saying: “The Teller of Lies sows his seed amongst
the fertile soils of the Emerald Sword, but they will reap
a bitter harvest.”
Orlniskis broke the hospitality offered by the Greeting
when he killed the Yelmalion initiates who were amongst
the Emerald Sword emissaries visiting his chieftain’s hall.
As they stood up to speak of their god, Orlniskis took his
spear and shield and challenged the Yelmalions to prove
their god’s might in a duel. Orlniskis killed all seven in that
fight; the Dolutha still call that the ‘Seven Blows of Anger.’
When the Dolutha refused to pay compensation,
and exile Orlniskis for his ‘offense against the gods’, the
Emerald Sword and the Dolutha fought a feud to settle
the matter. After two years of bloodletting the Dolutha
had the upper hand, and the Emerald Sword sued for
peace. Erinsulva Fine-Hair of the Emerald Sword married
Orlniskis to bring peace. It lasted for two years before
the Crippled Foot Feud broke out, plunging both clans
into conflict again.
The Emerald Sword maintains that many of the problems that beset the Dolutha since have come because the
gods turned their backs upon them after they broke the
sacred trust of the Greeting.

102

Korlmhyor was responsible for the ‘Tormakt’s Farm Massacre’
when a group of Dinacoli raiders burned a hall, killing women
and children, including Yerestia Cat-Witch, Kangharl Black-Brow’s
first wife. Kangharl has always wanted blood vengeance against
Korlmhyor and never accepted Broddi’s settlement with Duruvan.
Korlmhyor never speaks to deny it, but he did not order the
burning. He had left his younger brother, Broyan Never-Quiet,
in charge of looting Tormakt’s Farm while he screened the raiding party from any Red Cow counterattack. When he returned
to find his brother had burned a hall to the ground because the
residents had refused to open the doors, he beat his brother, and
then took responsibility.
Korlmhyor is still haunted by the ‘Tormakt’s Farm Massacre.’
Many of his own clan feted him as a hero for ‘sticking it to the
Red Cow.’ The Red Cow clan hates him regarding him as an evil
coward. He has never told the truth of what happened, believing
it his responsibility regardless of whoever lit the flames.
Kallesra Sees-Tomorrow 2lx
Bloodline: Ranosing
Faction: Tarshite Loyalists
Age: 36
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Initiate of the Seven Mothers 5
Look: Grim-faced, tall, scarred-chin

EMERALD SWORD
CHIEFTAINS
LIVING MEMORY
1560-1567 ERINORTH THE RIDER
Erinorth the Rider was an Elmali thane of the Emerald Sword
clan. After Monrogh Lantern had his vision of the Many Suns,
Erinorth was amongst those who converted to Yelmalio and began
to preach amongst the Dinacoli with zeal; his new hoplite followers
were so successful in raiding the clan’s traditional enemies that the
people made him their chieftain.
Erinorth was happy to join the Dinacoli fight against the
Torkani, who were allies of the trolls, Yelmalio’s great enemy. He
was amongst those who burnt the Torkani queen Xerena.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 8

When he tried to convert the Elmal worshipping Dolutha
south of the Creek a young Dolutha thane Orlniskis Twist-Foot
ignored the laws of hospitality and drove him out. The Emerald
Sword and the Dolutha fought the Bitter Harvest feud for that.
Erninorth died on Orlniskis’ spear during a duel on Isle
Dangerous and his followers retired to the Amber Fields of Sun
County after the clan people asked them to go, because the price
they had paid in war with the Dolutha was too heavy.

1568-1577 KULFIN THE UNREADY
After the conflict with the Dinacoli the Emerald Sword chose a
Wind Lord, Kulfin the Unready, to lead the clan. Kulfin was a
noted adventurer who had recently returned from helping Dorasar
settle New Pavis where he had made his fortune in the Big Rubble.
The conflict with the Torkani continued, but Kulfin doomed
himself when he sought to reinstate the traditional Dinacoli
tribute from the Cinsina, first imposed after the conquests of
King Illaro Blacktooth of Tarsh as payment for ‘protection’
against the Telmori.
It may have been this arrogance, as much as the insult delivered
by Erinsvula Fine-Hair when she divorced the Doluthan chieftain
Orlniskis that led to the Crippled Foot Feud.
Kulfin died on the spear of Orlniskis Twist-Foot, and the Emerald
Sword settled with the Dolutha. They resented that settlement
years later when Orlniskis became chieftain of the Dolutha. Ivar
Quickstep, the current Dolutha chieftain is Erinsvula Fine-Hair’s
child by Orlniskis. As such, he has kin amongst the Emerald Sword.

THE CRIPPLED FOOT FEUD
When their child Ivar Clubfoot was born, Erinsulva left
Orlniskis Twist-Foot, claiming that “One cripple was enough,
two too much.” Following that insult the peace made to
end the Bitter Harvest feud broke and the Crippled Foot
Feud began.
The bloodshed lasted for another two years, as the
resentments and scores left over from the Bitter Harvest
boiled over. When Rastnik the Red and Tarvik the Swarthy
killed Orlniskis’ uncle, Londrath the Unkempt, Orlniskis
hunted them both through the streets of Pavis, where
they tried to flee.
In the end, Orlniskis sent a message to Erinorth the
Rider that they should “settle the matter on Isle Dangerous,
with spear and shield as argument.” Erinorth was blindly
arrogant and felt sure that his god’s magic would prove
stronger than that of Orlniskis’ god.
Orlniskis silenced Erinorth’s cheering followers, who
had been certain of their lord’s victory, with one blow
from a spear, thrown at a run, which pierced the visor of
Erinorth’s helm. Orlniskis stripped the body of its gilded
armor and presented it to his chieftain as a gift, “to pay
the debt to my kin for all the trouble I caused,” before
heading into exile.

1578-1590 BROHARD HAIRYBREEKS

1597-1602 ASHARL THE UNWASHED

Brohard was chieftain when the Tarsh rebels lost to those loyal to
the Hon-eel dynasty and the Lunar Empire at the Battle of Grizzly
Peak. After that the Far Place joined Sartar.
Following Kulfin’s failure to take the tribute from the Cinsina,
the clan stopped looking south of the Creek and instead focused
on trade and alliances with the clans around Alda-Chur.
Brohard continued to lead raids against the Erlending clan of
the Torkani, stealing cattle and plundering their steads throughout his chieftainship. He fought the Strange Sisters, and Dark
Friends feuds with the Erlendings. He died when the Erlending
Wind Lord, Alebard Long-Beard slew him in single combat at
the Battle of Fleet Crossing.
The alliance between the Erlendings and the Red Cow stems
from the Dark Friends feud, when Orkarl Belly-Laugh sent
his horse-riding thanes to help the Torkani fight the Emerald
Sword. The Sazdorf troll tribes brokered that alliance, and the
Emerald Sword called the Red Cow and Erlendings the Dark
Friends after that.

Asharl the Unwashed had to fight the Barnwulf Boys’ Feud
against the Dolutha when Emerald Sword horse-thieves killed
Barnwulf Smooth-Tongued’s two sons when taking prize mares
from his barn.
The feud faded with the threat from the Empire, although the
bad feelings were never really resolved. The clan replaced Asharl
when he tried to stand with his Prince against the Lunar invasion.
Hahlgrim Wood-Nose had won promises of Lunar goodwill if the
clan withheld their warband from the Seven Mothers missionaries.
People saw their loyalty to Alda-Chur and not Boldhome and no
one wanted to get into that fight.

1591-1596 BROKAR SURE-HANDED
Brokar Sure-Handed fought the Ferry Feud against the Red Cow
when Venharl Tangle-Hair killed Koschei Braggart. Neither he
nor Orkarl Belly-Laugh really wanted that fight.
Brokar was amongst the first to object when the Dolutha
appointed Orlniskis Twist-Foot chieftain — few had forgotten
his role in the deaths of many of their kin. He encouraged cattle
raids against the Dolutha.

1602-1607 HAHLGRIM WOOD-NOSE
Hahlgrim kept his people out of the fight when the Red Moon’s
soldiers marched into Sartar, and the Seven Mothers missionaries who
had sought the clan’s inaction rewarded the clan with Lunar favor.
Hahlgrim led the clan to plunder Erlending steads with the
backing of his new Lunar friends.
He joined the Wolf Hunt and led the clan in search of their
old enemies, the Telmori, in support of Duke Jomes. He died in
that fight, when a pack of the Telmori ambushed him, along with
many thanes of the Emerald Sword.

1607+ DURUVAN THE FAT
A famed cattle raider, Duruvan the Bold, the present chieftain
was elected after Hahlgrim Wood-Nose fell in the Great Hunt.
Duruvan led his clan into the arms of the Empire’s missionaries and the wealth that flowed down the Alda-Chur Road

The Emerald Sword

103

from the Provinces. He was amongst those who supported King
Petrad Redgold in 1613, when the king took the Dinacoli out
of the Jonstown Confederation and into the protection of Duke
Harvar Ironfist.
Duruvan hoped that leaving the Jonstown Confederation
might put an end to the conflicts across the Creek, but he had to
fight the Three Widows Feud with the Dolutha in 1614 and the
Tormakt’s Farm Massacre of 1615.
Last year, Kangharl Black-Brow of the Red Cow, whose wife
had died in the Tormakt’s Farm Massacre, led a cattle raid against

the Emerald Sword. Torath Silk-Breeches, an Emerald Sword man
died during the raid.
Rostakus was keen to use the incident as an excuse for trouble
and he called the offer an insult. He convinced an unhappy Duruvan
the Fat to declare a blood feud with the Red Cow.
Rostakus tried to settle the matter in a duel with the old Red
Cow clan champion Jordarn the Clash and killed him. Instead
of settling the matter, this just made the Red Cow thanes more
determined to seek blood vengeance.
The two clans are still fighting the Silk-Breeches feud.

THE DONALF FLATS
This region is a rich farming land with few hills, drained
by the Donalf Stream and The Creek and its tributaries. The
local clans are now all part of the powerful Dinacoli Tribe.
The cattle here grow fat on rich grasses.

BLUE BOAR FORT
Blue Boar Fort is set atop the only hill that rises above the
Donalf Flats.
Earth magics raised the mound on which the fort stands
15 feet above the flats. Three great earthen walls surround
the hilltop and enclose an area of 120 acres.
A great stone sacred to the clan lies at the heart of the
fort, the Rain Blossom stone, sacred to Orlanth Thunderous
brings reliable rains to the grasslands here.
A proud citadel crowns the fort’s eastern side, the seat
of the Dinacoli kings since Dinacol Hard-Rule brought his
people to this land. Foul King Brangbane made his “finger
soup” here and murdered the women from whose hands
he cut them. The ghosts of his victims, the Finger Women,
still haunt the citadel.
The main gate of the fort is carved with scenes depicting
Izen’s Hunt for the Blue Boar.
Once Blue Boar Fort had few buildings. It was a ceremonial
and tribal center, but otherwise had space so that the Rain
Blossom Clan could drive all their families and livestock
within the walls for shelter in time of trouble.
Since the Dinacoli allied with the Empire, wealth has
flowed into the fort. The fort has begun to look more like a
town. Craftsmen, many from Alda-Chur and Jonstown have
built workshops here, traders built warehouses, and the
Boar’s Head Inn now caters for travelers who take the short
detour from the King’s Road rather than use the roadside
stop of Wark’s Hotel.
The Blue Boar heroquest is well known, and the fort is
a common jumping-off place for hunters who wish to feed
their clan or sire litters of strong and healthy piglets.

104

THE BLUE BOAR HEROQUEST
In the Storm Age Nandar-Nan, the savage Great Blue Boar
was a famous beast child of Velhara. He terrorized farmers,
smashing steads, goring farmhands, and siring intractable
offspring on the local sows. Nandar-Nan would also sometimes show up and alert a wild pig just as a hunter was
approaching. Nandar-Nan was the goal of many a hunt, but
no one, not even Odayla, could catch him.
One day Izen Swiftrunner finally caught him. He found
some truffles and lured Nandar-Nan into an ambush. They
struggled, but Izen won, slew Nandur-Nan, and buried his
body on the Donalf Flats. The locals around Blue Boar Fort
still revere Nandar-Nan and on occasion perform the quest
to hunt him and return with magical boar tusks or other
porcine gifts.

WARK’S HOTEL
This village along the King’s Road lies between the territory
of the Fox and the Rain Blossom clans of the Dinacoli. Wark
is a survivor of the horrors of the Battle of Grizzly Peak. A
thane of the Rain Blossom clan, he has spurned further
service with the Dinacoli king and retired from fighting to
set up a hostel for travelers along Terasarin’s new road from
Dangerford to Alda-Chur.
Wark’s old hall has been converted into an inn, with
his byres providing a stable for the mules, and his barns
storage. Wark does not oversee affairs day-to-day being
old, but his three sons continue their father’s trade, and
squabble about their inheritance.
His chief claims to be a Lunar deserter who was apprenticed to Beat-Pot Aelwrin; no one knows the truth, but he is
a very good cook, for those who can pay.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 8

• Chapter 9 •

REBELS

THE REBELLION
The Rebellion is not an organized force with one set of recognized leaders and an agreed command structure. It is individual
and spontaneous as individuals choose between the ‘civilization’
of the Lunar Empire and the ‘freedom’ of the kingdom of Sartar
and opt for the latter. Few of these rebels have contact with the
leadership of the Sartar High Council.
Starbrow’s Rebellion was the last major revolt against Imperial
rule. Rebels repelled a Lunar attempt to raze the Hill of Orlanth
Victorious in Culbrea lands, and the subsequent uprising liberated
much of Sartar. The Cinsina lands were no longer under the Red
Moon and Jonstown was a free city but Lunar retaliation was swift
and deadly. General Fazzur Wideread crushed the rebellion, and
killed or outlawed its leadership. The brutal, punitive response of
the Empire dissuaded many from further rebellion.

BROYAN OF WHITEWALL,
THE LAST REBEL KING GSW

Brandgorsson (see Sartar Companion page 33), a thane of the
Colymar tribe, escaped the fall of Boldhome with as many pieces
as he could. He gave them to his chieftain, Kallai Rockbuster of
the Colymar, to forge a new Ring. Hostfaring Treeleaper of the
Culbrea and Minaryth Purple heroquested to replace the lost parts
and the three reformed the kingdom’s broken Ring. The other
artifacts attracted their bearers, who came slowly to the band.
After Starbrow’s rebellion many of the Sartar High Council
were sent into exile or killed; the parts were scattered again.
With Minaryth’s help, Kallyr Starbrow re-gathered the parts
and replaced those she could not recover (such as when Kallai
Rockbuster refused to help) and she has continued to lead the
band in secret since.
The members of the Sartar High Council hold the regalia.
They are the most important rebel leaders, dedicated to the cause
and with the support of the desperate outlaws who comprise
their warband. Of the rebel leaders of this supplement, Orstalor
Spearlord and Orngerin Thundercape are on the Ring.

KALLYR STARBROW

Broyan of Whitewall has fulfilled ancient prophecies and was given
the sacred Sword and Helm of Vingkot by Great Orlanth himself.
He returned from the Otherworld marked with the dangerous
but sacred tattoos of the Kodigvari bloodline — a line of kings
descended directly from Orlanth — marking him as the most
magically important Orlanthi since Harmast Barefoot. Lunar
sorcerers and Esrolian Grandmothers alike dread the return of
a Kodigvari, but the Orlanthi rapturously welcomed the news.
In 1617 Broyan defeated the six guardians appointed by Belintar
and resurrected the Kingdom of the Hendrikings at the sacred
fortress of Whitewall.
As High King of the Hendrikings, Broyan is now leader of all
free Orlanthi and widely viewed as King Vingkot returned and
the fate of the Orlanthi people is in his hands.
King Broyan is off-stage in this campaign — but NPCs who
long for freedom will consistently refer to him as the great hope
for their liberation. Rebel leaders who the PCs do encounter, such
as Kallyr, will refer to orders and direction from Broyan.

THE SARTAR HIGH COUNCIL
The Sartar High Council, is the successor to the Ring that once
helped the Princes of Sartar to govern. The royal regalia of Sartar
was scattered when Boldhome fell. The invaders took some parts,
but several pieces were hidden or taken away in secret. Dunorl

Kallyr Starbrow is the foremost Sartarite leader of the rebellion and
the most influential individual in Sartar. Queen of the Kheldon
tribe and a member of the Royal House of Sartar, Kallyr is a Vingan,
never wedded nor bedded since she took her oath to free Sartar
from the Lunars. Kallyr is emotionally distant, aloof, proud —
often arrogant — and ruthless in her relentless pursuit of a free
Sartar. More than a decade ago, she went to the Sky World and
conquered a Sky God. Now she bears his power in the jewel set
in her forehead — the source of her epithet.
She has warred against the Lunars her entire adult life, fighting
at Boldhome, in the Righteous Wind Rebellion, and Starbrow’s
Rebellion; she now leads what is left of the anti-Lunar rebellion
in Sartar. The Lunars have caught her several times but never
managed to keep her. Kallyr leads the Sartar High Council and,
after High King Broyan, is the Orlanthi leader most feared by
the Lunar Empire.
Until the PCs come to her notice, their early contact will not
be with her, but with her lieutenants. Javern Spithorn is the
first link that the players will meet; Orngerin Thundercape (his
superior) is the second.
Javern is a well-known and easily recognized member of
Orngerin Thundercape’s band. He has a bull’s horn stuck right
on top of his helmet with the curve arching backward. If asked
about it he says, “It’s my ancestors’ custom,” and then spits
upon the ground.

Rebels

105

THE SILENT WIND
The core of the Silent Wind hero band came from members of the Greenhaft warband who went into exile with
Orngerin. As they replaced losses suffered fighting in
Kallyr’s rebellion, and alongside King Broyan in Heortland,
freedom fighters joined from clans of both Sartar and
Volsaxiland, drawn to the charismatic Orngerin. Cliques
within the band reflect these origins. Despite its diversity,
the band is held together by loyalty to their commander
and his leadership. There is no formal organization other
than this bond of personal loyalty. Two things could see
the seams pull apart: Orngerin’s death, or a string of
failures causing members to lose faith in his leadership.
Orngerin is a guerrilla fighter and emphasizes stealth
and cunning over direct confrontation. The band tends
to be armored in tube-and-yoke leather or linen armor
and open helm, with a round shield, short sword or axe
and javelins.
When in Sartar, the band tends to hide around Drum
Point, raiding the area around Jonstown, and retreating
into Lorthing Vale or even the Quivin Mountains if pressed.
They have been known to operate with the Black Hill Band
who also operate in this area. However, the band is often
absent with Orngerin and Kallyr, frequently in Volsaxiland
and so can’t be said to have a territory to the extent the
other bands here do.
There are some thirty-five warriors in the band at this
time, and some twenty camp followers.

QUEEN OF THE KHELDON,
LEADER OF THE SARTARITE REBELLION:
KALLYR STARBROW LORICONSDOTTIR gLsW
Kallyr Starbrow is the daughter of Loricon, son of Rastoron, son
of Jarolar, Prince of Sartar; and of Enerin Ironeye, daughter of
Ferena the Herbalist, daughter of Ernaldness Freckles, daughter
of Yerestia Knows‑better, daughter of Ernaldinni Wolfkiller, who
was on the Kheldon Ring when Sartar came to the land.
Kallyr is the queen of the Kheldon tribe. She is as powerful as
a minor god—once she alone exterminated a tornado that was
tearing up her home. She obtained the Sky Rune when she went to
the Sky World to become Rigsdal’s lover, in the form of a shining
jewel set in her forehead.
The Lunars have caught Kallyr, but never kept her. Her followers dragged her, near dead, off the field at Boldhome, and she
escaped. She was captured by Lunar sorcery at Larnste’s Table,
but she escaped. She was in Whitewall when it fell to the Lunars,
but she escaped. She wears the regalia of the Sartar High Council.
She heads a band of rebel fighters who will be called the Candle
Dancers after the Shiprise in 1624.
Dreams told her that she will be a queen greater than her
tribe, and she seeks this role. She is convinced of the truth of this
prophecy and frequently takes gambles and risks because of that.
She was surprised when her rebellion against the Empire failed
— so sure was she of her destiny. She has not been troubled by

106

self-doubt following that defeat though; she remains convinced
that her fate remains to be Prince of Sartar.
Kallyr’s self-belief makes her willing to take risks. This attitude
blinds her to the possibility of defeat or failure and makes make her
dangerous to those who work for her. Anyone in Kallyr’s orbit should
quickly learn that the casualty rate is high amongst her followers.
In private, the weight of Kallyr’s destiny does lie heavily upon
her. She loves Rigsdal, and is happiest in the Sky World, visiting
him; the Middle World is filled with burdens of leadership and
expectation.
Kallyr Starbrow Loriconsdottir gLsW
Tribe: Kheldon
Age: 37
Keywords: Warrior-Queen
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth — Vinga sub-cult g, Initiate
of Rigsdal L
Look: Silver torc, unbound red hair. Her stern
demeanor would make her noticeable, but the bright
star-like gem blazing on her forehead immediately
captures the attention of all who see her. She seems
distant to most people, and always speaks definitely:
not “I hope...” or “try to...” but “this will happen...” and
“you will....”

ORNGERIN THUNDERCAPE gsW
Orngerin Thundercape is one of Kallyr’s most capable and trusted
associates. “Constant as the rain in Sea Season, deadly as the
lightning in Fire” is what the common people say about Orngerin
Thundercape. He holds Sartar’s Jewel on the Sartar High Council.
A seasoned thane from the Greenhaft clan of the Cinsina tribe and
Storm Voice of Orlanth, his competence, loyalty, and leadership
have won him renown and a place as one of Kallyr’s most trusted
associates. When the Greenhaft chieftain, Jost Bronze-Side, refused
to help Kallyr, Orngerin left to follow her, taking many members
of the warband with him. They became the core of the Silent Wind
band, and fought alongside him in Starbrow’s Rebellion and went
into exile with Kallyr to Heortland.
Whenever possible, he has people brought to him, rather than
he going to them. Orngerin is a giant among men, if you measure
by fame and glory. He has earned the respect and devotion of his
loyal companions, who do his bidding without question. They
know that Orlanth himself plucks up the souls of men who die
defending their lord.
Orngerin Thundercape gsW
Faction: Free Sartar
Age: 32
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Devotee of Orlanth g
Look: Always says, “Aye, yes” when he begins
speaking; clean shaven; long hair

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 9

ACTS OF REBELLION

REBEL LEADERS

Most people are content to express dissenting views in the safety
of their own home over a cup of ale, surrounded by kin. They do
not proselytize or express their dissatisfaction anywhere that it
might come to the attention of the Lunar authorities.
Some are prepared to commit acts of passive resistance —
so-called Bread Rebels. Bread Rebels indulge in acts of sabotage
against the occupying forces, often by ‘deliberate omission’ or
‘dereliction of duty.’ Bread Rebels fail to grind the grain properly
leaving dirt and stones in the bread, sell the army horses that are
going lame, give directions ‘the long way around,’ feed soldiers
spoiled meat or foul ale, stage construction site accidents and use
inferior building materials. Bread Rebels act as the ‘eyes and ears’ of
the rebellion, reporting movements of troops and officials. People
who ignore the prohibition on Orlanth and attend the ceremonies,
but do not lead them, fall into this category too.
Faltika Far-Traveled of the Red Cow clan is a Bread Rebel. The
clan matchmaker, she regularly travels between clans and she uses
that as a cover to carry messages for the rebellion. She keeps her eyes
and ears open and is an important source of information for rebels
on what is happening. However, she never takes direct action herself.
Many Bread Rebels end up going further and take the first
step to disobeying the edicts of the Occupation. Most could be
crucified if they were caught. These Claw Rebels lead worship of
Orlanth, provide hospitality to Orlanthi priests and outlawed
rebels by hiding them in hay barns and cattle byres when the
soldiers come, or guide rebels across clan lands. The Claw Rebels
often hand out fines and beatings to those ‘guilty’ of collaborating
with the Empire. Occasionally they take direct action against
the Empire: ambushing and killing tax collectors, merchants,
missionaries, and traitors. Claw Rebels need to be discreet enough
about their actions that they can continue to live in their villages
openly. Many affect the appearance of collaboration to cover
for their activities.
Within the Red Cow clan, Gringle Harvest-King is a Claw
Rebel. He shelters the outlawed Orlanthi priest Ashart Dusk-Eater
from the Lunars.
If a Claw Rebel’s crimes become known, and they evade capture
by the Lunars they become Sword Rebels forced to live as outlaws, in
hiding. Cut-off from the restrictions of living in a community, the
Sword Rebels engage in a guerilla campaign against the occupying
army. They ambush Lunar patrols and supply caravans, and attack
garrisons. The Lunar Army directs its attention to capturing and
killing Sword Rebels, and despite the support of Claw Rebels,
most do not survive long.
Orngerin Thundercape, Orstalor Spearlord and Venharl Stormbrow
are Sword Rebels, because they live as outlaws, conducting guerrilla
warfare against the Empire. Ashart Dusk-Eater of the Red Cow
clan lives in hiding as a Sword Rebel because he is hunted by the
Empire for continuing to conduct worship of Orlanth despite the
Empire’s prohibition.

Some Sword Rebels survive long enough to gain notoriety and
fame. Those that attract followers become rebel leaders. The following Rebel Leaders are the most significant in or near Cinsina
lands: Orstalor Spearlord and Venharl Stormbrow.

RIVERSIDE GUERILLA:
ORSTALOR SPEARLORD wsW
Orstalor is from the Locaem tribe. When that tribe turned to the
Lunars he walked from the chieftain’s hall, and none dared stop him.
Once he raided cattle, now he raids the Empire. Many followed
him into exile, forming the core of his warband, Miki’s Mudhens.
People call him the “Riverside Guerrilla.” He has a special
relationship with the River, because he married the water nymph
Wandle. No Lunar soldier dares pursue him within a quarter mile of
the Creek, Stream, or River, and those who do are never seen again.
Orstalor uses no weapons except his long spears, which he can
throw like javelins or wield with the delicacy of a flensing knife.
A member of the Sartar High Council and bearer of Sartar’s
trowel, he leads worship of Orlanth at sites like Good Rain Hill

MIKI’S MUDHENS
Those who left the Locaem tribe with Orstalor formed the
core of his warband in exile. Many have died fighting the
Empire but new spears have filled out the ranks. Orstalor
now recruits from amongst the Cinsina, Aranwyth, and
Torkani who attend the ceremonies at Good Rain Hill.
Many of the warband worship Heler either as a sub-cult
of Orlanth or in his own right. The Heler worshippers can
call upon Engizi when along the River and often use this
to deadly effect such as the time they drowned a company
of the Beryl Phalanx at Dwarf Ford in 1617.
Miki’s Mudhens are usually found in the Dogbone
Hills, or in Torkan’s Vale near the Still Lake. They survive by
hunting in the woods and gifts from Aranwyth, Torkani, and
Cinsina clans. They raid all along the Creek-Stream River
and so may be absent from these ‘home’ areas at any time.
The warband is organized similarly to a clan. Orstalor
Spearlord is the chieftain of the band, and a ring drawn
from the leading members of the warband supports him.
Like any chieftain, Orstalor depends on the willing support
of his band, and they could replace him. This would only
be likely if Orstalor suffered a series of defeats that led
to the band questioning his competency.
The band usually numbers some 80 members. Of these
about ten are thanes, equipped with bronze scale or chain
armor and horses; about twenty are warriors who have
bronze helmets and leather armor; and another twenty
are skirmishers. Much of the equipment is looted from
Lunar units. The remaining thirty members of the band
are supporters including healers and camp followers.
The band’s name is a joking reference to a children’s tale.

Rebels

107

THE REBELS
From left to right: Kallyr Starbrow, Orngerin Thundercape, Orstalor Spearlord, Venharl Stormbrow

and Larnste’s Table. He launches guerilla action against the Lunar
supply line that runs from Too Far, through Trader’s Valley, Glasswall,
Alda-Chur, Herongreen, Dangerford, Jonstown and beyond to
Boldhome. He is known for ambushing caravans at Dwarf Ford,
and fleeing through Snakepipe Hollow, where Lunar soldiers fear
to pursue him.
Orstalor is a good-humored man prone to laughing and joking.
His black humor — seeing the funny side of reversals — has kept
his followers spirits up during their long exile.
Orstalor is particularly welcome among the Red Cow because
of his association with Engizi and Heler. He is a frequent lover
of Voranga Many-Sorrows, and the clan says that their union
blesses their meadows with rain. Orstalor often joins the clan
for worship at Good Rain Hill, and is firm friends with Ashart,
the hidden Orlanthi priest. Ashart can often be found hiding
with Orstalor.

REBEL LEADER:
VENHARL STORMBROW gWR
Venharl Venharlson was a thane of the Firebull clan; he left his
home to fight the Empire and swore loyalty to Kallyr Starbrow,
he is famed for his many adventures with Orngerin Thundercape.
He is a master of guerilla warfare. His Storm Rams are a thorn
in the side of the Empire but he does not see eye-to-eye with
Queen Ivartha. She resents the rebel leaders, unelected ‘strong
men’ on her ‘patch.’ Broddi resents Venharl’s presence in his
neighborhood, luring the young men away with tales of adventure
and glory. Venharl’s actions jeopardize the accommodation Broddi
has reached with the Empire. Fazzur Wideread has placed a huge
bounty on Venharl’s head.
Venharl has heroquested several times. On one, he awakened
and befriended the minor Storm God Blackcloud. On another,
he obtained Heler’s magical helmet Stormbrow, which can shoot
hailstones the size of hen’s eggs at an opponent.

Orstalor Spearlord wsW
Venharl Stormbrow gWR

Faction: Free Sartar
Age: 43

Faction: Free Sartar

Keywords: Thane

Age: 43

Magic: Devotee of Heler/Engizi w
Look: Orstalor is a huge man, but no one calls him
“fat” without suffering his wrath. His followers call
him “bear bellied” when describing him or talking
about his size

108

Keywords: Thane
Magic: Devotee of Orlanth g
Look: Always wears the storm-helm; blunt nose, curly
red beard and hair

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 9

Rebels

109

VENHARL’S STORM RAMS
The Storm Rams all know storm or wind-related magic.
Wherever they go, they bring a constant overcast with them.
This is a manifestation of the warband’s wyter, Blackcloud,
and from it they call all manner of Storm magic. Appearing as
a dark cloud heavier in Storm and Darkness seasons, lightest
in Fire Season, Blackcloud can come down to the ground
to hide members of the warband, or stay in the air, ready
to use its magic directly or to Augment warband members.
The Storm Rams are well equipped with bronze scale
armor and helmets, decorated with ram’s horns, and shields
painted with blue rams. They cut an imposing figure, admired
by young men and women.
The size of Venharl’s band varies, waxing and waning
with the rebellion’s fortunes, but the core of the band numbers forty warriors. These numbers can be swelled with

local ‘auxiliaries’ if needed. Along with the warriors, some
twenty ‘camp followers’ live with the band and cook and
clean, fix weapons and armor, make clothing, and tend to
the sick and injured.
The band is to be found in Battle Valley and Moaning
Valley, though they maintain their distance from the Sazdorf
trolls. They often occupy the King’s Tower on the Finger.
When that location becomes compromised, they decamp to
the Dogbone Hills until any Moon Dogs lose interest. They
tend to raid the Lunar caravans along the King’s Road, but
have been known to raid caravans along the Pavis Road,
and even Pimper’s Block.
The band is organized much like a War Clan. Venharl is
the chieftain of the band, and he has a ring of seven advisors to counsel him.

REBEL HIDEOUTS
The rough country to the east of Red Cow lands — the southern
Dogbone Hills, the southern part of Stagland and Torkan’s Vale
provide a refuge for many rebels.
The land here is a wilderness. Cutting the earth with the
plough has been forbidden since Sartar made his peace with the
Telmori. Since then, the Dogbone Hills and Torkan’s Vale have
had no permanent settlement. The southern part of Stagland
is covered in woods that grew after the Telmori annihilation of
the Maboder a decade ago. The Telmori hunt here, as do braver
hunters from the Cinsina and the Torkani. Meetings between the
wolfmen and Sartarite hunters are frequently violent if one side
or the other believes it has the advantage.
Outlaws have been hiding in the Dogbone Hills and Torkan’s
Vale since Sartar’s settlement and the area is notorious for harboring bandits. With the Occupation, many of those bandits are
rebels, hiding from the Lunar Empire. The bandits mostly live
in temporary camps of tents, bivouacs, and temporary shelters.
Sometimes a rebel or bandit gang risks building something
more permanent — but this rarely lasts. The wolfmen, bounty
hunters, or local thanes usually ambush outlaws who stay in
one place too long.
Outlaws and bandits here live by hunting. As such, they tend
to cluster in small groups to avoid putting too much pressure on
one area.

WOLF STAND
Wolf Stand is the site of a fortified stead in Torkan’s Vale set
on a mound of earth, some 20 feet high, and 100 feet across,
surrounded by a five-foot high dry stone wall. Much of the wall
is vitrified glass; a remnant of the Dragonkill when a dragon’s
breath melted whatever EWF outpost was here. Within the walls,
successive groups have built wooden longhouses, only to abandon

110

CRANNOG
A crannog is a man-made island in a lake. To make a
crannog, start with a shoal or small island; drive oak
piles into the ground to form an enclosure about 200’ in
diameter. Fill the space in between with rubble, wood,
and earth and pack it down to a flat surface. Then build
your houses atop it and surround with a palisade.
Over time, trees and brush will cover an abandoned
crannog because local herbivores cannot access the
island to graze it. The Still Lake crannogs are old and
abandoned, and the outlaws who camp here rarely cut
the vegetation down. Instead, they live amidst the cover
provided by the island’s vegetation in tents or bivouacs.

them under attack from the Telmori. Queen Ivartha the Skinner
camped at Wolf Stand when she was in temporary exile from the
Red Cow for her part in a blood feud with the Split Waters clan
of the Maboder.
At any given time, a bandit or rebel gang may be holed up at
Wolf Stand.

STILL LAKE
A number of crannogs (see box, above) provide defensible locations
on the Still Lake. The Heortlings built them in the First Age as
places of safety from Palangio the Iron Vrok, a general of Nysalor’s
Bright Empire. Access to the crannogs is difficult, because it involves
moving across causeways now hidden by the choking reed beds.
The hidden causeways give defenders a huge advantage against
attackers who must pick their way through.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 9

BATTLE VALLEY, SIX SISTERS,
AND THE FINGER

On a Major or Complete Defeat, the ambushers are more likely
Telmori or Lunar bounty hunters.
Finally, the bands do have regular rendezvous points where
small patrols meet with Claw or Bread Rebel sympathizers. These
rebels can guide the players to a meeting place. Then it is a question of camping out until a rebel patrol makes contact. Once
again, the rebel patrol always tries to ‘ambush’ anyone at these
sites, in case they have been compromised. As above, visitors to
the rebel camp are usually blindfolded so that they cannot reveal
the camp’s location.

On the far side of the Wolf Ridges and Jarolvale lie Battle Valley
and the Six Sisters.
Battle Valley is home to the Sazdorf troll tribe, but small groups
of humans have hidden here from time to time in the EWF ruins.
Lunar patrols rarely sweep through the valley and the Cinsina
and Aranwyth tribes have little interest in hunting rebels. See the
Sartar Companion for more information.
Six Sisters is a well-known formation of hills. Shamans come
here from time-to-time and know how to obtain aid from the
spirits here. The limestone massifs are a good place to hide.
The Moaning Valley cuts through the Wolf Ridges to connect
Battle Valley to Stagland. The Finger is a high peak (4,300’ tall)
between Battle Valley and Moaning Valley. At its summit is the
King’s Tower, a sturdy stone watchtower and encampment built
by Sartar. Prince Temertain has never sent anyone to occupy the
tower, confident there is little threat from the Animal Nomads
since the Lunar Empire defeated them at the Battle of Moonbroth.
Rebel bands have since used it as a hideout and headquarters. It
is particularly defensible, because the climb is precarious and the
only safe way to reach the tower is by flying.

MOON DOGS

THE GOOD PLACE

USING THE MOON DOGS

To the east of the Telmori Hunting Lands Sartar gives way to the
Plains of Prax. The lush grasslands on the verges of the chaparral
receive the best rainfall blowing east from Dragon Pass. The land is not
good enough for crops, but sheep, cattle, and horses can graze here.
The Pol-Joni tribe dominates here and the Empire exerts little
influence having no designs on the Praxian wastes. The Animal
Nomads sometimes raid the Pol-Joni; sometimes raiding deeper
into Sartar, seeking metal and slaves. The Sable Riders, who have
Lunar backing, have become the dominant tribe in Prax, having
pushed the others into the Wastes and are the most prevalent of
the Pol-Joni’s foes.
This has been a common ‘last refuge’ for the Orlanthi of Dragon
Pass and Sword Rebels are often to be found hiding amidst the PolJoni of the Good Place, or further south towards the Verge. Most
Sword Rebels go here when they realize that the Empire is on their
trail, in the hope that things will cool down allowing them to return.

The Moon Dogs are there to provide opposition to players who
wish to engage in rebel activity. While the targets of the Sword
Rebels — garrison units on patrol, or armies on the march — are
on the defensive against the rebels, these units take the fight to
them. Once the players get comfortable meeting with Orstalor
Spearlord at a crannog on Still Lake, have Legate Bisomen Legilus
launch a surprise attack intended to kill the clustered group of
rebels. When the players are sleeping off the victory feast with
Venharl on the Dogbone Hills, have Buthur Dog-Nose strike.
These enemies should develop new tactics and deploy new units
to counter the threat offered by the players and their allies. If the
players create a pattern of action, let them perhaps get away with
it twice, but then deploy new units to counter the threat. One of
the Lunar Empire’s advantages is its diversity and they probably
have some specialists somewhere who can counter any threat.

CONTACTING THE REBELS
The simplest way to contact the rebels is to enter the wilderness
blowing hunting horns, lighting campfires, and making enough
noise to scare off all local game. This brings the travelers to the
attention of anyone in the area. The trouble with this approach is
that it will attract everyone nearby. The likely result is as often an
ambush by a Telmori warband, bounty hunters, or bandit gang
as it is to draw the rebels. This is a high-risk strategy.
Tracking the rebel bands is a Very High difficulty; otherwise,
the Empire’s agents would long ago have found them. However,
Defeat may indicate that the players find the band they were seeking,
when that band ambushes them. A quick tongue explaining their
presence may win them blindfolded entry into the rebel camp.

The Empire employs specialists whose job is to hunt down rebels.
These men and women include bounty hunters as well as regular
forces. Privately though, many commanders dislike these individuals
regarding them as ‘troublemaking adventurers.’ These ‘Moon Dogs’
focus on hunting down Sword Rebels. All these units engage in
irregular warfare, spending long periods in areas only informally
under control of the Empire; they are self-reliant, independent
and usually have access to magic tailored to their task.

BOUNTY HUNTER:
BUTHUR DOG-NOSE .tB
Buthur Dog-Nose is unmistakable because he has a dog’s nose.
He often adopts canine positions when speaking or hunting, as
though he were a dog himself. With their long enmity towards
dogs the Red Cow clan finds his behavior disturbing.
When on a mission, he is accompanied only by his four bodyguards and his servants. The servants keep camp, forage and hunt
for food, and generally do all the mundane tasks so that Buthur and
his men can track their quarry. Buthur is unusually attached to his
servants, and will break off pursuit or combat if they are in danger.
Buthur worships ViSarta, an ancient Pelandan hunter and
chieftain. Buthur is not interested in fighting as much as he is in

Rebels

111

getting his quarry. He will avoid conflict with other parties, and will
often use ambush tactics to take out his target, then rush forward to
secure the body. He and his men are also experienced in non-lethal
combat for those contracts where the fugitive must be returned alive.
Buthur is a hunter but not necessarily a killer, and does not seek
combat or confrontation. He just wants to be paid his extravagant
fee, do his tracking job, turn over the quarry to his employer, and
go home. Even with his impressive bodyguard, he will always run
instead of fight.
Whenever the PCs think they are well hidden or have escaped,
Buthur can find them. He travels on foot with his bodyguard,
sniffing the ground, air and twigs. He can be ambushed, and any
fight with this colorful group is entertaining, but he always tries
to escape. Moreover, he usually succeeds, always returning to lead
the enemy to the PCs.
Buthur Dog-Nose .tB
Nation: Pelanda
Faction: Lunar Empire
Age: 32
Keywords: Hunter

Dara Happan Lion god Durbadath and considers himself superior
to the barbarians of Dragon Pass, rarely choosing to speak in their
presence, and taking offense if spoken to.
The Lion .tB
Nation: Dara Happa
Faction: Lunar Empire
Age: 28
Keywords: Hunter
Magic: Initiate of Durbadath t
Look: Wears a lion hide cloak and hood, fights with
bronze claws on fists, stocky build

THE HUNTER tBW
The Hunter is an Arirae tribesman. Arir is a land of clans held
together by the bonds of the hunt, the way of the warrior, and
dynastic bloodlines descended from the gods. He lives for the
challenge of the hunt, and stalking sapient prey is the greatest
thrill of all. Buthur has promised him the chance to hunt Telmori
as part of the payment for his services.

Magic: Devotee of ViSarta B
Look: Dog nose, dog postures, calls his servants by
job not name

The Hunter tBW
Nation: Arir
Faction: Lunar Empire

BUTHUR’S COMPANIONS

Age: 24
Keywords: Hunter

THE BULL 5Wt
The bull is a Carmanian cataphract, a mounted warrior. Both he
and his horse wear bronze scale armor. His helmet has a visor,
shaped into a face with only eye slits. He carries a twelve-foot
bronze tipped lance and charges his foes. He carries a mace to
smash skulls with afterwards. He is High or Very High in a fight
due to all that armor and the shock of his charge.
He is a nobleman in Carmania, haughty and considers all
barbarians beneath him.
The Bull 5Wt

Magic: Initiate of Kenstrata t
Look: Bald head, loincloth, tribal tattoos on his face in
swirling patterns

THE SHAMAN .Bb
The Shaman belongs to a petty animist tradition of Durnvok,
a barren land in southern Pelanda. He has charms for foraging,
eating, and healing. His main role is to provide for the band in
the wilderness or drive off enemy spirits.

Nation: Carmania

The Shaman .Bb

Faction: Lunar Empire

Nation: Durnvok

Age: 33

Faction: Lunar Empire

Keywords: Cataphract
Magic: Devotee of Aronius Jaranthir 5
Look: Aristocratic features, chink of armor, piercing
blue eyes

Keywords: Shaman
Magic: Shaman of the Bald Pig Tradition B
Look: The shaman wears a ritual pig’s skin as a cape
and grunts and snorts as he invokes his spirits

THE LION .tB
The Lion is an old hunting companion of Buthur. A minor
son of a Dara Happan noble family, he had become bored with
expeditions tracking game in Peloria. Buthur promised him the
chance to hunt the greatest quarry of all, man. He worships the

112

Age: 37

CHEAP SIX PACK
Cheap Six Pack are Buthur’s servants. They cook, clean, set up the
camp, tend the fire, run errands, etc. They don’t expect to fight and

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 9

MOON DOGS
From left to right: Buthur Dog-Nose, Bisomen Legilus

Buthur does not expect them to either. Buthur shows an unusual
attachment to his servants, and tries to keep them from harm.

Legate Bisomen Legilus 5ty
Nation: Doblian
Faction: Lunar Empire

LEGATE BISOMEN LEGILUS 5ty
Bisomen is a younger son from a prominent noble family of
Doblian. The family is Carmanian and lost prestige and power
when the Carmanian Empire fell. Since then generations of the
family have tried to restore the family’s fortunes through service in
the Imperial Military. Dragon Pass is seen as a good posting, the
chance to earn wealth in foreign wars, but Bisomen knows that
the real wealth will be found in the invasion of the Holy Country
and longs for a transfer there.
Bisomen was raised within the strict caste system of the Black
and White laws that cover behavior in every circumstance. He is
strict and pious and finds it hard to adapt his behavior to local
circumstance. As a karmanoi, one of the ruling castes, he considers
it beneath him to look after his own kit or food on the march, or
deal with the local farmers. He is much more willing to address
local thanes, chieftains, and kings, but is bemused by displays or
demands of equality.
Bisomen is practical and experienced. He is a cavalry officer,
striking with speed, surprise, and savagery, but sometimes uses
foot troops ineffectively.
Rather than regular army regiments, he commands a unit
called a vexilla, the innovative and flexible task force instituted
by the Lunar war god Yanafal Tarnils. His vexilla is tasked to hunt
down and kill rebels.

Age: 28
Keywords: Cataphract
Magic: Initiate of Aronius Jaranthir 5
Look: Aristocratic Bearing, oiled beard, speaks in
halting Sartarite

THE LEGATE’S VEXILLA
The vexilla is an independent command drawing its strength
from regiments across the Empire. The vexilla allows units to be
detached from their regiment and its standard or lares, without
losing access to their unique magics. This ability to raise small
tactical formations below the level of a regiment gives Lunar
generals flexibility when dealing with threats that cannot simply
be engaged on the field of battle. Vexilla are ideal units for the
kind of irregular warfare common in Sartar.
The vexilla consists of a headquarters and three units drawn
from regular Lunar regiments stationed in Jonstown: the
Arrowstone Cavalry, the Mirinite Swords, and the Doblian
Dogeaters. One of these is a cavalry unit, one medium infantry,
and the other a supporting infantry unit. In addition, the unit
has a baggage train of camp followers.

Rebels

113

INDEX OF REBEL AND LUNAR NPCS
Name

Position

Bloodline

Faction

Page

Queen of the Kheldon

Free Sartar

Free Sartar

106

Orngerin Thundercape

Rebel

Free Sartar

Free Sartar

106

Orstalor Spearlord

Rebel

Free Sartar

Free Sartar

107

Venharl Stormbrow

Rebel

Free Sartar

Free Sartar

108

Buthur Dog-Nose

Bounty Hunter

Lunar Empire

Lunar Empire

111

Bisomen Legilus

Legate

Lunar Empire

Lunar Empire

113

Kallyr Starbrow

The vexilla is organized and disciplined. When on the march it
makes a fortified camp every night, erecting a picket fence around it.
Arrowstone Cavalry

The Arrowstone regiment is medium cavalry unit that fights in
the Kastokus style. In Sartar, they patrol the roads in groups of 12
men — a troop leader and 11 troopers. The Legate has a special
bodyguard division of 20 veterans.
The Kastokus style emerged in the wars against the nomads
of Pent. A Kastokus trooper carries two bows. They use the small
bow to shoot from horseback and a larger bow to use on foot.
They are also trained to fight dismounted, forming a shield wall,
bristling with spears, and move and turn in formation.
The Arrowstone Cavalry recruits in Oraya. The settlers in
the Redlands bordering Pent are descended from volunteers,
exiles, and fugitives, and organize themselves on principles of
political and social equality. They often seem more like the
eastern horsemen than settlers from the Empire in clothing and
custom. Kastoks are a border guard and territorial militia, the
“living wall” of the Empire.
The Mirinite Swords

The Steel Swords are a unit of medium infantry from Holay in
the provinces. Members wear felt armor and carry a large round
shield, heavy throwing spear, and a sword.
The Mirinite Swords fight on foot, interlocking their shields
to form a shield wall. They throw their heavy spears before closing
with opponents and then close in stabbing with their famous steel
swords. NCOs blow a whistle to rotate exhausted front-line troops
for those in the rear, keeping the fighters fresh. They form a wedge
to break an enemy shield wall and a square if threatened by cavalry.
The Legate has a unit of twelve swordsmen.
The Doblian Dogeaters

The Doblian Dogeaters are a peltast unit from the Lunar Heartland
Corps native to Carmania but so badly mauled at the hands of
General Yanafal Tarnils they converted to become followers of
the Red Goddess. They worship Sakkar, the saber-toothed tiger

114

god, who the Dara Happans know as the Great Fear. They have
a rivalry with the Lasadag Lions, another Heartland Corps unit
for mythic reasons.
They carry javelins with which they pepper their targets before
charging the enemy and cutting him down with a rhomphaia —
a double handed polearm with a curved sword on the end of a
3-4’ haft.
They wear whatever clothes they choose, not a uniform, but
the color of the sleeves denotes their rank, red (highest), black,
or green (lowest).
Twenty Doblian Dogeaters serve with the Legate.

THE REBELS AND THE TELMORI
The rebels have aided and sought aid from the Telmori at different times. The Fourstar battle band, which included Kallyr
Starbrow, and other famous rebels and outlaws fought alongside the Telmori against Jomes during the Wolf Hunt of 1607.
Kallyr supported the Telmori in defense of the peace that Sartar
had made with the wolfmen, which agreed the borders of their
traditional hunting grounds, and the friendship of the Sartarite
dynasty. During her 1613 rebellion, Kallyr Starbrow called on the
Telmori to honor their obligations and fight in her bodyguard.
She reminded them of the commitment she showed to Sartar’s
agreement six years earlier.
Both Orstalor Spearlord and Venharl Stormbrow have good
relations with the Telmori, and in particular the leader, Kostajor
Wolf-Champion. As such, the packs permit them to move through
their areas, provided they do not violate sacred sites, or cut the skin
of Grandmother Earth with plows. Neither Orstalor nor Venharl
discuss this arrangement openly with the Cinsina, knowing their
attitude to the wolfmen.
The association of the rebels with the Telmori has colored
the attitude of the tribes of the Jonstown Confederation toward
Kallyr Starbrow. Her relationship to the wolfmen is problematic
amongst the Cinsina, Torkani, and Aranwyth in particular.
Queen Ivartha has a personal dislike for Kallyr based on her
ties with the Telmori.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 9

• Chapter 10 •

THE WOODS
OF THE DEAD
THE EATERS OF
THE DEAD

I

n 1496, Brangbane, the king of the Dinacoli was badly
wounded fighting against the Hon-eel dynasty in Tarsh. Crippled
by an axe blow to the spine, most believed he would never walk
again. His companions bore him home on a litter. The sad party
made camp at Dwarf Ford on their journey home. As the king
slept fitfully, close to the chaotic influence of Snakepipe Hollow,
Nontraya the Taker entered his fevered dreams. Nontraya whispered to Brangbane of a healing broth, which would heal his
wounds — but that healing came at a terrible price — Nontraya
told Brangbane to brew a ‘soup’ from human flesh.
Brangbane negotiated for a wife from a distant clan. He paid
in gold, enough to keep the girl’s family from asking why their
daughter should marry a king. The family never heard from her
again. After ‘marrying’ her Brangbane began to eat her, part-bypart. At first, he took her fingers, just enough to heal his injury, but
soon he noticed that the soup stopped him aging too. Brangbane
continued to take parts of her body to make his soup until her
wounds could no longer be hidden. Then he killed her, claiming
that she had left him. Deprived of the source of his immortality
he arranged to marry again, and again.
In 1501, Sartar uncovered Brangbane’s plot when he received
complaints from families whose daughters had gone missing. In
disguise, Sartar moved among the Dinacoli until he had uncovered the truth, a mutilated ‘wife,’ and the unmarked graves of

THE UNLIFE RUNE
MEANING: UNDEAD
This Form Rune is a Chaotic perversion of the Life
and Death Runes. It is the insatiable hunger of
the Void, draining Life from others to preserve a hollow
existence. Those who embrace this rune are cut off from
the mystic unity of Glorantha and cast apart from Life and
Death. It is the rune of Nontraya the Taker, the enemy of
Ernalda.
Unlife has power over Life and will often have a situational bonus when it is resisted by Life. Death has power
over Unlife, for the Final Death destroys Unlife, and users
of the Death Rune often have a situational bonus against
use of Unlife.

his victims. Sartar outlawed Brangbane and summoned help to
punish the “foul king.” Brangbane fled with his closest followers
before Sartar could catch up with him. Not to be outfoxed, Sartar
cursed the king and so that the punishment might fit the crime,
he gave the king an insatiable appetite, but made all food repulsive
to him. Sartar damned Brangbane to starve.
Brangbane found a solution. While real food was repulsive
to him, taboo foods were not. Brangbane survived by dining on
dead and rotting human flesh. Better yet for Brangbane, eating
the flesh of the dead allowed him to continue his foul ritual. Thus
Brangbane defied Sartar, defied death.
The Orlanthi call these eaters-of-the-dead ‘ghouls.’ Ghouls
look much as they did in life, but over the years, their skin takes
on a papery texture. Puncture their skin and they do not bleed.
Their nerve endings die out and they no longer feel; they can lose
a limb without shock. Ghouls seem to have tremendous strength
and endurance because this ‘lack of pain’ enables them to stretch
their bodies to the limit and beyond.
Ghouls do not rot or decay, provided they continue to regularly
eat human flesh. Should they fail to eat a corpse a week, the ghoul
begins to decay as age catches up with them. Light accelerates this
process, quickening the process that causes the ghoul’s skin to dry
out, causing it to crumble. A ghoul exposed to daylight must eat
more to repair the resulting damage. An already starving ghoul
exposed to light begins to disintegrate, unable to repair their body.
Even in this state a ghoul who is then fed a human corpse will
revive. A hungry ghoul would eventually crumble, but most find
food or die trying before that point.
A ghoul’s howl is terrifying to living creatures; so frightful even
seasoned warriors drop their weapons and flee in terror. Ghouls
raise the howl when hunting prey. Resisting a ghoul’s howl is a
High or Very High difficulty.
A ghoul’s bite injects a paralyzing poison. The poison is a
High resistance.
Although a ghoul will use its bite to subdue prey, most ghouls
continue to use the weapons and armor that they used in life.
Most have had many years to perfect their weapon skills and are
High or Very High.

BRANGBANE, KING OF THE GHOULS
Despite being over 150 years old, Brangbane does not look a day
over thirty. From a distance he is a handsome man still, fit and
in prime condition. Close up his skin is pale and parchment like,
stretched a little too thin over his bones. Vain, he often checks his
appearance in a long-handled silver mirror he has his handmaiden
carry for him. She is a thrall, usually a young girl, missing many

The Woods of The Dead

115

fingers. His handmaidens never last long for as soon as Brangbane
notices any sign of himself aging or suffering damage, he kills and
eats them to regenerate his decaying flesh.
He spends much of his time in his kingly hall, its walls hung
with moldering tapestries, its tables furnished with tarnished
silver tableware. If Brangbane sees the decay he does not show it,
believing himself surrounded by the trappings of a fortune won
from years of raiding. When Brangbane does leave his hall he
never travels by day, always returning home before the sun’s rays
can age his skin.
He rides a fearsome black horse that snorts flame and wears
a hauberk of boiled and blackened leather fashioned from the
hides of warriors he has killed. Brangbane carries his deadly
blade Mistletoe, a magical bronze sword with a hilt made of
human bones.
Brangbane acts on whim. Capricious and cruel, he sports with
his victims, tormenting them with the promise of liberty only to
cut a new part from their body or torture them until they die.

BRANGBANE’S THRALLS
Brangbane’s ghouls have learnt to keep people as cattle, reducing
the number that must be culled from the local population. Humans
captured on raids are kept as thralls. Their hair is regularly cropped
short and a leather collar fixed around their neck. When working
in the fields the slaves are chained by the neck or hobbled so that
they cannot flee. This slave population works small clearings in
the woods. Their diet is fruit and barley that they grow themselves;
the ghouls prefer barley-fed flesh.
While the ghoul thanes live in halls, their human cattle live in
‘byres’ sleeping chained on straw pallets. Villages also have sunken
buildings used to store barley, fruit, and other food. Worse though
are the smoking sheds where butchered humans are hung to smoke
so that their meat will keep.
There are no livestock on the farms. Animals cannot tolerate
the ghouls’ presence. Humans are the only ‘cattle’ kept by the
ghouls and as well as meat, they use the bodies for their other
needs. Human skin is tanned to provide leather for clothing and
tools. The ghouls are particularly fond of covering their shields in
the tanned hides from human faces. The slave collars the thralls
wear come from human skin too. Human hair is woven to make
clothing. Human bone is used for tools, combs, and pins.
Some thralls are given the ‘opportunity’ to act as overseers of
their fellows slaves. These slaves avoid the cooking pot in return
for enforcing their master’s rule with whip and club. The thralls
hate the overseers who have betrayed their own kind even more
than they hate the ghouls.
Slaves who try to escape are hunted for sport by the ghouls.
Their howl scares most escapees to the point that they become
lost in the woods, unable to escape their masters, who can run
without tiring.
When Brangbane’s ghouls raid surrounding clans, they usually
seek fresh livestock. They conduct these ‘cattle raids’ in a cruel
mockery of Orlanthi tradition.

116

THE FINGER WOMEN
The Finger Women are the avenging ghosts of Brangbane’s
wives. Denied proper burial their souls wander; unable to
find peace until Brangbane is brought to account for his
crimes. They haunt the Woods of the Dead still, working
to aid those who fight against the ghouls. All Sartarites
know a ritual to summon the help of the Finger Women
against the ghouls. A player hero can invoke the Finger
Women at their Your Clan rating when struggling against
ghouls. Anyone with it as an Ability should gain a specific
Ability bonus. The ghosts appear to attack the ghouls.
They appear as beautiful young women, but transform
into nightmarish forms to strike a ghoul, biting with their
teeth and pummeling with their mutilated hands.

THE WOODS
The Woods of the Dead are a cool, humid, dark, and forbidding
spruce-fir forest. The forest is continuous, with occasional clearings
for the ghoul villages. The forest canopy has grown thick with
few people to cut it, and little light penetrates to the forest floor
which is littered with half-rotting logs. Undergrowth is patchy,
just some bushes and wildflowers. Sight lines are short, much
of the forest seems uniform, and it is easy to become turned
around and lost.
There is little animal life within the forest. The presence of
the ghouls has frightened away most of the deer and hares that
would normally make their home here. Crows however are here
in abundance. They caw from the treetops to warn the living,
clustering around the ghoul villages where their hoarse calls
can be deafening. The crows are Humakt’s servants feeding off
any carrion in the forest and nearby lands, denying the flesh to
the ghouls.

LOCATIONS WITHIN
THE WOODS OF THE DEAD
BIG STONES CROSSING
These rocks provide the best natural crossing of the Solfint within
the Woods of the Dead. A set of five broad flat stones, with a short
jump in between, are usually safe, if slippery. Surrounding them
are a set of stones whose shapes remind people of rabbits, owls,
frogs, foxes, and bears. The ghouls sometimes ambush travelers
here, waiting until one half of the group is across the Solfint
before attacking.

BLACK ROCK VILLAGE
Built on King’s Hill, Brangbane’s ‘royal stead’ is a mockery of
an Orlanthi hill fort. His hall surmounts the crest of the hill,
surrounding it are the homes of his loyal lieutenants, the pens
where their slave population is kept and the butchery houses

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 10

where bodies are allow to rot until they reach their full flavor. A
palisade walls surmount an earthwork forms the outer defenses,
with access provided by a simple gatehouse.

HIGH ROCKS
A scattering of hills rises in the north of the woods. The wet
weather in this region has eroded many caves in these hills. It was
in these caves that Brangbane first sheltered from the sun, and
he lived here for many years gathering his followers around him.
Some ghouls still call the caves home, but most of Brangbane’s
followers regard them as ‘degenerate’.
The hill under Black Rock village still has connections to the
cave system where Brangbane once sheltered, allowing Brangbane
an escape route.

THE SECRET OF HIGHWALL INN
Jafoska and Baran survive despite the proximity of the
Woods of the Dead by murdering travelers who they do
not believe will be missed, and offering their butchered
corpses to the ghouls in horrific feasts at the inn. Jafoska
seduces the guests, kills them, and robs them, and Baran
butchers them. They hang the meat in the cellar, to ensure
they have food when their ghoulish guests decide to call.
The pair are not sure what would happen if they had no
meat, but do not want to find out.
The pair have amassed a small fortune from robbery,
enough to set themselves up elsewhere and do have an
escape tunnel under the inn and out beyond the wall.

HIGHWALL INN
This inn along the road between Alone and Herongreen provides
a place of relative safety for travelers having to pass the Woods of
the Dead. Ghouls abhor daylight for its aging effects so the major
danger to travelers comes in passing near the woods at night. The
Highwall Inn, named for the strong palisade wall that surrounds it
provides a place of safety and comfort for travelers, with enough

space for the caravans that pass up and down the road to stable
their animals for the night. The innkeeper Jafoska Warm-Heart is
beautiful woman, who escaped a life of prostitution on the streets
of Alone, by marrying the old innkeeper, Derik Finehair. Derik
died and left Jafoska the inn. Her cook, Baran the Chop also serves

The Woods of The Dead

117

as the Inn’s bouncer. He is a capable man, for even when there are
no caravans, Jafoska and Baran seem able to defend themselves
against the ghouls.

SOGGY BOTTOM
This low lying area, in the south of the woods is boggy and
treacherous with quicksand. The ghouls know routes through, but
outsiders and captives don’t and often meet their doom, sucked
into the quagmire here.

SURROUNDING LANDS
ALONE
In 1583, Terasarin founded Alone amid deep and hostile forests
as he led Tarsh survivors from the Battle of Grizzly Peak. Here
amid the peace of the Hidden Valley they turned from the world,
exhausted by the long years of struggle. They remained hidden
for less than a generation, and it is now the tribal center for the
Amad and Bachad tribes.
Alone resisted Harvar Ironfist, and suffered for it. After he
quelled the Righteous Wind Revolt, Harvar punished whoever had
not helped him or resisted the rebels. Mercenaries entered the town
by treachery, then burned part and slaughtered the inhabitants.
Only five hundred remain now. The two tribes swore an oath
of subservience to Harvar and pay heavy tribute.

HERONGREEN
Herongreen controls the road between the Far Place and Sartar,
and is a rich source of income to the Dinacoli Tribe.
In the Storm Age, Larnste cut his foot upon the pinnacle
Enduring, which was and is and will ever be. It is a mighty landmark,
its razor heights hidden in cloud, and Herongreen sits at its base.
Varanor Smoke-of-Altars used the cast of its shadow to mark the
walls of his palisade, and it took him four years to complete them.
The Dinacoli settled the ancient Vingkotling fort.
The sacred Herons of the Green have always “provided omens
of peace and war,” and the locals protect them. Now they cry
through the night, and their chicks’ plumage is tipped blood red,
a terrible omen.

118

HIDDEN VALLEY
This fertile valley amidst the wet forested hills of the Far Place,
the Gors, was carved by the Solfint River is one of the few valleys
suitable for raising fat cattle for the tribes of Northern Sartar. It is
named for the narrow mouth to the valley, which leads onto the
Donalf Flats. That valley mouth is dominated by the Woods of
the Dead, which dissuaded nearby tribes for exploring this area
for generations. Even now few choose to pass along the road from
Herongreen to Alone, unless they are in well protected caravans.
The Bachad tribe clung to their isolation in this territory for many
years, sheltering from the Tarshite Civil War. Now the Hidden
Valley is a refuge from Harvar.
The tribes here are all renowned troll fighters, due to their
proximity to the nearby troll-haunted Indigo Mountains.
In the Storm Age, young Barntar grazed his hardy Redmane
cattle here until a great bear killed them. Barntar drove the bear
away, but it has come back many times. He then built a lodge
from the felled trees, and set boundary stones at the edges of the
clearing, so that the forest never came back. That lodge was here
for many years, and is now a shrine. Barntari hold a big bear hunt
there every year.

LIZARDWOOD WILDS
These pine forests lie between the territories of the tribes of the
Far Place and those of the Torkani Skirmishes are common, and
many raiding parties cross the woods in both directions.
The woods are sacred to Asrelia, and many strange primeval reptiles created by that goddess inhabited them in ancient
times. The lizards that dwell there now are mostly rat-sized and
insignificant, mere shadows of their former glory. Nonetheless,
they are in unusual profusion, in both number and types, and
few of them seem to mind the cold of winter as much as they
would elsewhere. Wise travelers avoid hurting them, for fear
of angering Asrelia.

SOLFINT RIVER
The Solfint is seasonal. Fed by the rains from Skyfall Lake the
Solfint is a wild and unpredictable river. The Solfint’s icy waters
often break their banks during Dark, Storm, and Sea Season, but the
river can run dry in Fire and Earth Season. Spirits haunt the river
that only the Amad clans have learnt to appease. Nonetheless, many
healing herbs grow in the nearby meadows, and small swimming
reptiles frequent its banks where it passes through the Lizardwood.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 10

• Chapter 11 •

WULFSLAND
THE MABODER
The Maboder tribe lived close to the Telmori in Stagland. They
survived unmolested because they kept no livestock and the wolfmen
had little interest in their barley. Mabodh May-Not-Be-Moved,
the Ernaldan priestess who saved the clans organized them as a
‘triaty’ with each clan taking wives from one other. This gave them
strong bonds of kinship. With Stonegate as a place of refuge, the
Maboder survived the years in hiding.

KING KATHELRANDA
King Kathelranda changed the Maboder. Traditionally, the Maboder
had elected queens to the Black Oak Throne, but in 1601, when
his sister, Miresthranna, died in a fire, Kathelranda became king,
supported by Lunar money. Kathelranda returned the favor and
withheld the Maboder from coming to the aid of the kingdom
during the invasion. King Kathelranda believed that the Empire
would help him defeat the Telmori.

THE WOLF HUNT
In 1605, Kathelranda’s warband slaughtered a group of Telmori
old men, women, and children in the Black Moon Massacre. In
revenge, during the winter of 1606, the Telmori fell upon the
Maboder villages. They killed every man, woman, and child they
could find. Finally, they reached Stonegate. The entire Maboder
leadership was wiped out.
The Lunars could not let the loss of their ally go unpunished.
The governor, Euglyptus the Fat, appointed Jomes Hostralos, a
Lunar officer from Aggar, to lead the raid. Jomes had experience
of fighting the Telmori in his homeland, and his men were used
to guerilla warfare. In a daring raid, Jomes captured two of the
Helkos Brothers and then executed one of them. He also slew the
beast brother of Kostajor Wolf-Champion, “King of the Telmori,”
and wore its skin. Then he forced the Telmori to negotiate peace
and exchange hostages. After that, people called Jomes ‘Wulf.’
The Lunar Empire rewarded Jomes by granting him the
old Maboder lands and its survivors. The grateful Jonstown
Confederation did not protest, despite angry protests from the
remaining Maboder.

THE GRANTLAND

that area. Other local examples include the grant to Sir Ethilrist
of Black Horse County and the grant to Raus of Rone along the
River of Cradles.
Officially called Jomesland, most people refer to Jomes’ Lunar
grant as Wulfsland. The grant extends south from the Creek bordered by the Heort Creek, and the Red Cow, to the west. To the
east lie the Dogbone Hills and Torkan’s Vale, as far as Dinosaur
Hill in the south. The land rises from the Heort Creek in the west
to the Dogbone Hills in the east. Settlements cluster along the
Creek in a rough line from Stonegate Fort to Red Cow Fort, with
the number dropping off as you travel south toward Stagland.
As of 1618, there are 3,000 people in Wulfsland, 1,500 settlers,
and 1,500 slaves, mostly Maboder survivors. Of these 1650 are
adults, and 1350 children. Of the adults, around 100 are elders.
They are roughly equal numbers of men and women. Most adults
work on the land either farming or hunting.

COLONIST ORIGINS
Most of the settlers are Lunar veterans owed lands for service. The
veterans tend to be ultra-loyal refusing to hear a bad word said
about ‘Old Wulf.’ From Aggar, the settlers’ lives are similar to their
Sartarite cousins and many worship Barntar, and even Orlanth, as
well as the Seven Mothers. Many have taken wives from among the
surviving Maboder women, married into the Cinsina, Aranwyth,
and Torkani and married off their daughters in return.

THRALLS
The Maboder survivors returned to their land as thralls for the
new homesteaders, marked out by their close-cropped hair and
leather slave-collars. A few Maboder women earned their freedom
as wives for the new settlers and a few Maboder men earned theirs
when the masters gave them weapons to help defend the village.
Most continue to live in servitude.
The life of thralls varies; nobles, thanes, and priests may have
domestic slaves and tend to treat them well, treating them as servants;
artisans tend to have skilled thralls, who are valued possessions;
farmers tend to have laborers, who do the most back-breaking
work on the farm — their lives are often short.
The cult of Ernalda the Slave is popular amongst the thralls.
This is Ernalda in her aspect as a prisoner of the Emperor’s Court,
before Orlanth freed her. She teaches endurance and forbearance
to her faithful.

POLITICAL FACTIONS

The Empire has a policy of granting land upon its borders to
reward military leaders — often with the hope of helping to pacify

Jomes is the ruler of his grant. There is no challenge to his rule,
and the succession of the grant is his to decide. Jomes has little
time for talk of ‘chosen leaders’ and stamps on those who call for

Wulfsland

119

elections. He has no time for the Orlanthi principle that ‘No one
can make you do anything.’
An underground movement, the Daughters of Mabodh, exists
among the slaves, keeping the worship of Orlanth and the promise
of liberation alive.
As well as being a governor of his own lands, Jomes is also a
Field Commander within the army.
• The Imperial Loyalists say that Jomes’ first loyalty is to the
Empire and that it must work to further the ambitions of
the Lunar governor Fazzur Wideread in subjugating Sartar.
• The Own Two Feet movement believes that the grantland
should look to its own needs, characterizing the Empire as
a disinterested parent at best. They point to Jomes’ alliance
with the Sartarite tribes during the Wolf Hunt, the friendly
cooperation with the Jonstown Confederation in maintaining the ‘fence against the wolves’, and intermarriage with
local clans and say ‘we need to form alliances with these
people, not alienate them.’
• The rebels of the Daughters of Mabodh know that this is
Maboder land and will fight for its return. They seek the
return of the rule of their line of queens and their old lands.
They want to throw Jomes out. War makes strange bedfellows, and the remnants of a tribe who collaborated with the
Empire, now find themselves allied with those who would
expel all remnants of the Empire from Sartar.

STONEGATE
HISTORY
Stonegate Fort was the seat of the Maboder tribe, until their
destruction by the Telmori. The fighting here was fierce and the
Telmori burnt the wooden buildings to the ground. Only three
things survived: portions of the old wall of the fort including the
Stone Gate, the temples of Ernalda and Orlanth, and the Hall of
the Black Oak Throne of the Maboder tribe. Since it has become
a Grantland, many people now call this Wulf Fort.

THE FORT
Stonegate is a circular fort 600’ in diameter surrounded by a dry
moat some twenty feet across and six feet deep, and a wall that
rises some ten feet. In places the wall is a high wooden palisade
and in other places the remains of the old Maboder-era box rampart. There are four stone towers spaced around the perimeter,
two either side of the gate. The watchtowers rise some 30’ high,
20’ above the surrounding walls, each tower is covered with a tile
roof. Jomes keeps a permanent guard in the towers, watching for
Telmori attack signaled from beacons on distant steadfastings.
There is only one entrance into and out of the fort, the famous
Stone Gate with its huge stone blocks for gateposts and lintel. A
narrow gap in the circling embankment and dry moat provides
access to the gate.

120

THE BORDER WULF PELTASTS
Jomes has a responsibility to raise a local unit for the
Provincial Army, the Border Wulf Peltasts. The Wulfslanders
usually refer to members of the unit as Bordermen.
They are organized as a modern Lunar unit with standardized equipment. Each man is armed with a crescent
shaped wicker shield, covered with sheepskin. The shield
has a single handgrip and is designed for parrying rather
than sheltering behind. The shield also has a strap for
carrying on the back. A peltast carries two javelins. The
usual tactic is for a peltast to run in, throw the javelins,
and then run away before the enemy can close, but the
javelin can be used as a stabbing spear if needed. Their
uniform is a white tunic, banded in red, with a long cloak,
and high soft boots for running. Headgear is a long-eared
cap, traditionally made of fox skin. Jomes allows the men
to wear a cap fashioned from wolfskin instead, and trim
their cloak with wolf fur.
Of the adults within Wulfsland about 200 can be called
upon for military service. About half of these are veterans.

POPULATION
About 200 Lunar settlers call Stonegate Fort home. Of these about
110 are adults and 90 children. Of the adults, 15 have lived long
enough to be considered elders. The population is divided into
eight households, with Jomes’ the largest.
In addition, there are about 40 slaves in Stonegate, most
descended from survivors of the Maboder tribe. About 30 of the
slaves are adults and another ten children. Most of the slaves work
as domestic help. A household has 3-4 slaves. Some are domestic
slaves who sweep the cinders from the fire, fetch water, and perform
other drudgery around the house; others work as laborers in the
craft halls or in the fields.
Stonegate is a craft center for Wulfsland. There is a smith, potter,
carpenter, carvers of wood, stone, and antler, leather workers and
tanners. The crafters provide much of the needs of the people of
Wulfsland they cannot manufacture in their own steadfasts.
Children play in the streets and alleyways; cats, pigs, and
chickens roam. This is a home for Jomes’ people and not simply
a garrison town.

ARRIVING AT
STONEGATE FORT
FROM A DISTANCE
Stonegate lies north of the Dogbone Hills in the south of the
Good River in Goodfarm Vale. The soils here are a rich dark loam
and the land is well suited to growing wheat instead of the barley
common on the poorer soils of much of Sartar.
Travelers to Stonegate either come along the trail from Red Cow
Fort (usually from Dangerford or Jonstown) or come down the Pavis
Road, a Lunar military road that runs from Alda-Chur to Pavis, and
ford the Good River to cross from Torkani lands into Wulfsland.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 1 1

Most visitors are Wulfslanders who come to
Stonegate to worship at the Seven Mothers mission
or obtain goods at the trading post.
Many of those seeking shelter inside Stonegate’s
walls are those caught in the wrong place as Wildday
approaches, and keen to seek shelter from the wolfmen on their day of transformation.
A patrol of Bordermen meets any visitors to
Stonegate. A typical patrol is of eight men led by a
Centurion. The patrol is usually relaxed with visitors,
more concerned with the threat of Telmori raiders
than rebels. They escort visitors to Stonegate.

often imported Lunar luxuries such as jars of wine,
to better show the benefits of the Empire.

TOWN GOVERNMENT
Jomes is the town government and his household
its administration. Jomes considers himself a Field
Commander for the Empire, not a town mayor,
and leaves much of the day-to-day administration
to Tatoukal. Stonegate is run as a frontier fort in
the ‘wilderness’ a place from which to conduct the
colonization of the Grantland, amidst the opposition
of the Telmori.

GATE GUARDS

BORDER WULF PELTASTS

A Centurion of the Border Wulf Peltasts is always
on guard at the gates. Half-a-dozen veterans who
have linen and scale armor and swords accompany
him. There is no entry fee to Stonegate, and the
guards are under strict instructions from Jomes not
to hassle or extort bribes from visitors. There is little
through-traffic to Stonegate, except at the weekly
market, and the guards take strangers to Jomes or
Tatoukal his spymaster.

In times of emergency, Stonegate musters its contingent
of Bordermen. Stonegate Fort contains many experienced veterans who form the core of the Border Wulf
Peltasts. There are some 60 Bordermen in Stonegate.

GENERAL AUTHORITY ATTITUDES
Jomes’ officers and guards are proud of their reputation as tough men and women carving a new life
on the frontier. They are touchy about any insults
including suggestions of cowardice or weakness.
They tend to have a “frontier’ attitude with little
regard for codes of law or bureaucracy.
Although they themselves are only recently part
of the Empire, the settlers regard native Sartarites
as barbarians and thieves.

TREATMENT OF TROUBLEMAKERS
Jomes does not tolerate outsiders causing trouble
and neither do his men, incarcerating them in cells
to await his pleasure. Jomes sees all troublemakers
personally and punishes disorderly conduct with
fines and outlawry from Wulfsland. For offenses
that are more serious, he may impose heavier fines
and seek justice from the offender’s tribe. Jomes
executes the worst troublemakers, crucifying them
outside the gates.

VISITING JOMES
Jomes is conscious of his position and status and
does not give audience to adventurers, common
tradesman, or other itinerants. Jomes’ staff direct
most inquires to Tatoukal who is always keen for
the intelligence in any gossip. Jomes sees chieftains
and kings when they visit, or their representatives.
Jomes is businesslike and efficient. He is also aware
that his time deserves a gift appropriate to the giver’s
station, and gets touchy if the locals do not show
him this courtesy. He gifts generously to dignitaries,

PROPERTY
All land within the walls belongs to Jomes as part of
the Emperor’s grant to him for his service in the Wolf
Hunt. The residents tithe at each harvest to Jomes
for the use of the land. Jomes uses the tithes to pay
for the Border Wulf Peltasts and his own household.

HOUSING
Buildings within the fort are of timber, but have
stone chimneys, and are two-storied.

CULTS OF STONEGATE
Barntar — 175 initiates
Ernalda exl — 200 initiates (an additional 200
slaves worship Ernalda the Slave)
Issaries hs — 5 initiates
Etyries — 5 initiates
Odayla gC — 20 initiates
Seven Mothers x/t — 45 initiates

ERNALDA
AND SLAVES
Ernalda served as a
handmaiden in the
Emperor’s household,
weaving cloth for the
Imperial Court. She
and her retinue endured
many hardships from
the cruel whims of the
court. Although Orlanth
freed her, the goddess
remembers her captivity
and so has always
listened to the prayers of
those in bondage, and
given them succor.
Only free men can
worship Orlanth, but
in areas where people
keep slaves, Ernalda
still receives worship
from those in captivity.
In many cases the slaves
only worship as lay
members, and often
this worship is in secret,
with images of the face
of the Mother scratched
with sticks into the
mud and earth, and
sacrifices of food pressed
into her ‘mouth.’

LOCATIONS
1. THE STONE GATE
The famous Stone Gate is framed by 20’ stone
high pillars, topped by a thick lintel stone. The
gates themselves are of bronze bound wood. Access
to the gate is by a narrow defile, formed by stone
walls, from where defenders can rain down javelins
upon attackers.
The stone walls end a short distance either side
of the gate. They are the ruins of the old hill fort,
and have been incorporated by the defenders into
their new defenses.
Inside the gate is an open space with a well. Jomes
uses this as a parade ground for his troops, but it
also serves for public meetings and a weekly market.

Wulfsland

121

STONEGATE FORT

122

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 1 1

2. THE WALLS

8. THE MARKET PLACE & THE GREENS

The original defense of Stonegate was a box rampart, some ten
feet high, defended by a twenty-foot wide and six foot deep
ditch. The Telmori annihilation of the Maboder destroyed
much of this original wall; the few portions that remain have
been incorporated into the new defenses. The new defenses
are a timber palisade some ten-foot high, which runs along the
perimeter of the old wall.
Four stone towers remain from the original defenses. They
are spaced around the wall, two on either side of the gate. These
watchtowers rise some 30’ high, 20’ above the surrounding walls.

The center of the fort is an Etyries market ground where there
is a weekly market. This is a farmer’s market. People come from
across Wulfsland to buy and traders come to sell. Pharandros
White-Beard is the god-talker for the market, and conducts the
opening and closing ceremonies. He charges a tithe to sell goods
here, half of which he keeps, half of which goes to Jomes.
The people here are mostly Orlanthi, and the Livestock and
Treasure Greens serve the same purpose as elsewhere — allowing
everyone to witness purchases or plunder and thus prevent disputes.

3. THE TRADING POST
The Etyries cult runs an inn here in an attempt to attract traders
traveling the military road to Pavis to stop for the night; most
caravans come from Herongreen and the post does not see the
trade its founders hoped for.
A small number of rooms at the Trading Post are available for
hire. Clean and comfortable, they are in the eaves of the roof of
the building and can be too hot in summer and too cold in winter
but the Trading Post has no competition.
The Trading Post has a boarding stable. Visitors can leave horses
and mules here for a modest fee.
It sells wine (served watered down in a bowl) and is the closest
thing in the fort to a tavern. Locals can often be found sitting on
the porch sipping a bowl, gossiping, and watching the comings
and goings of the fort.
Pharandros White-Beard runs the trading post with his wife
Mara the Haughty. His son Arim and daughter Pharzeela helps
with the running of the trading post.

4. THE SEVEN MOTHERS MISSION
The Seven Mothers mission is a two-story building at the heart
of the fort. It provides accommodation for the priesthood and
their assistants, as well as temple for worship, with gilded wooden
statues of the gods and goddesses.

5. ERNALDA TEMPLE
The temple to Ernalda is a simple building where the sacred statues
of the goddess are kept and the priestess holds the meetings of the
Women’s Circle. The priestess conducts ceremonies to Ernalda
outside; they are well attended by both free and slaves.

6. ORLANTH TEMPLE
The old Maboder Orlanth temple is in ruins. Blackened by fire,
its roof sagging from neglected damage, and its floors rotten from
rain and snow that falls through the holes in the roof, the temple
shows the neglect of the religion of the King of Storm. Pigs root
in the temple grounds now, kept by one of the local farmers. No
one has been brave enough to knock the remains down, although
it is a common topic around the fort.

7: URN FIELD
Most of the settlers are Orlanthi by culture if not faith and still
build funeral pyres to cremate their dead. After cremation, the
residents inter the urn containing the ashes of the dead here.

9. THE HOLDINGS
The Holdings are the households of the common folk of Stonegate.
They circle around the perimeter wall, away from the ceremonial
and administrative center of the fort. Low walls divide the households, and their gardens, byres, outhouses, and storage huts from
each other. Many of the residential buildings are two-stories with
stone chimneys. The Red Cow, used to hearths and smoke filtering
through the eaves, often gawp at these buildings!

10. THE BORDER WULF PELTASTS BARRACKS
The barracks support those members of the cadre of the Border
Wulf Peltasts who do not have their own home in Stonegate. There
are spaces for about 30 Bordermen, but at the current time, only
fifteen live here. The barracks consists of three blocks, each of
which provides home for ten men, a common room for meals,
and an armory for weapons. The barracks also has a shared latrine,
kitchen, and a drill yard where weapons practice takes place.
Strangers are not welcome in the barracks. A guard of four
Bordermen will ask outsiders to leave, directing them to the
Trading Post and the market.

11. THE HALL OF THE BLACK OAK THRONE
This stone walled enclosure is the former residence of Maboder
kings, and one of the few surviving buildings from that era.
Within the enclosure the buildings are of stone. The Hall of the
Black Oak Throne still stands and surrounding it are a number of
buildings for servants, byres, and stables. Many of these buildings
show signs of repair. New storage huts, raised on four posts hold
grain and roots.
The Hall of the Black Oak Throne consists of a central aisled
hall with two rows of pillars running down the center, and space
to either side, much like an Orlanthi hall. A vent in the ceiling
lets out smoke from a central hearth set in a stone bowl. It is here
that Jomes or his household hold meetings with important visitors
and hold feasts. The Black Oak Throne is still on a raised dais at
one of the room. Its surface bears scratch and sword marks, but
remarkably it is still intact. Jomes conducts his business seated in
the throne of the former kings of the tribe.
Windows are high and small, allowing the building to be easily
defended and serve as a final stronghold if invaders pass the fort’s
walls. It also keeps out assassins.
The intent is to overawe local chieftains, and paint on the
pillars and walls provide lavish decoration.
To either side of the corridor smaller rooms form wings and
serve as kitchen, private bedrooms, offices, and storerooms. If
needed Tatoukal presses some of the storerooms into service as cells.

Wulfsland

123

STEADFASTS
Outside of Stonegate, most of the farmers live in steadfasts, or
heavily fortified villages. This is Telmori country and people
cluster together for safety. A circular wooden palisade surrounds a
steadfast, its ramparts 12’ high. A pair of strong doors bars access.
Steadfasts shut their doors at night and throughout Wildday.
Few people travel on Wildday and many are even afraid to work
in the fields out of sight of the steadfast. Within the steadfast
are the houses of the local farmers — stave built longhouses like
those of their neighbors. There is just enough room for byres
and stables to keep prize animals and some sunken cellars with
a few days’ supply of root vegetables and firewood; just enough
room that the men can hold the wall against attack. There is
still not enough room for everything and granaries and haylofts,
usually of no interest to Telmori raiders, remain outside the
safety of the walls. On a Wildday, livestock chokes the narrow
alleys between the houses.

IMPORTANT PEOPLE
OF WULFSLAND

his trademark. He also earned a reputation for flamboyance with
showy personal touches to his uniform such as his deerskin jacket
or red scarf, frequently copied by his men.
Jomes rose to fame when Governor Euglyptus gave him command of the Lunar forces engaged in the ‘Wolf Hunt,’ the campaign
against the Telmori in the Wolf Hills, following the destruction
of the Maboder. Jomes showed considerable flexibility combining
locally raised volunteers with Lunar units into an effective fighting
force. Jomes’ campaign was highly successful. He captured two
of the Helkos Brothers as hostages, and executed one of them
when the Telmori broke their word. He slew the beast brother
of Kostajor Wolf-Champion, king of the Telmori and forced the
Telmori to negotiate peace.
He received the old Maboder lands in reward from the Lunar
Governor for his actions. He also earned the respect and co-operation of Telmori fighters among the tribes of the Jonstown
Confederation such as Queen Ivartha.
After that, the local people began calling Jomes “Wulf.”
A big tall man with long curly hair and mustaches, Jomes is
a charismatic presence despite his years. He is simply spoken,
blunt, and honest. His motto is ‘never apologize, never explain.’
A soldier’s soldier, Jomes earned the respect and loyalty of his men
by fighting and living alongside them. He always wears the skin
of Kostajor Wolf-Champion’s wolf brother.

JOMES’ HOUSEHOLD

Jomes ‘Wulf’ Hostralos l6W

Most of Jomes’ Household has been with him since his appointment as a Field Commander in the Provincial Army. Tatoukal
Blackbeard is his intelligence officer, running a network of informants to keep Jomes informed on affairs both local and distant.
A member of the Overseer’s Hand, he is the eyes and ears of the
Provincial Government in Wulfsland. Tatoukal reports to Dagius
Furius. He wants Jomes to take stronger action to fight against
the rebellious Sartarites.

Nation: Aggar
Faction: Own Two Feet
Age: 50
Keywords: Lunar Officer
Magic: Initiate of Polaris l, Orogeria 2)
Look: Buckskin jacket, long mustaches, red scarf

FIELD COMMANDER:
JOMES ‘WULF’ HOSTRALOS l6W

SPYMASTER:
TATOUKAL BLACKBEARD /yW

Jomes Hostralos, a Lunar officer from Aggar, one of the Provincial
Army’s Field Commanders. After an early career in Aggar, which
included fighting the local Telmori, King Rascius of Aggar put him
forward for a post in the Provincial Army. He earned a reputation
for decisive and aggressive military action during the Lunar invasion
of Sartar, such as when he led a charge of the Drenthi Grims at
the Battle of Caroman Pass, or made a heroic assault into the East
Pocket during the battle of Boldhome. Jomes earned a reputation
for leading from the front, fighting alongside his men, and taking
personal risks. The decisive charge, the “Jomes Dash,” became

Tatoukal grew up in the City of 10,000 Magicians in Aggar. His
father apprenticed him to the Irripi Ontor scholars but Tatoukal
quickly became bored with illuminating manuscripts and cataloging
dusty tomes. He used his father’s contacts to join the Entalothosium,
the Lunar military intelligence corps, serving notably as a Field
Intelligence Officer for a number of units fighting in Dragon Pass
and the Holy Country.
A master of lies, he showed a talent for gathering intelligence,
and persuading people to spy for the Empire through bribery or
blackmail. Unquestionably loyal to the Empire, Tatoukal was

INDEX OF REBEL AND LUNAR NPCS
Name

Position

Bloodline

Faction

Page

Jomes Hostralos

Field Commander

Own Two Feet

Own Two Feet

124

Tatoukal Blackbeard

Intelligence Officer

Imperial Loyalists

Imperial Loyalists

124

Maboder Rebel Leader

Daughters of Mabodh

Daughters of Mabodh

125

Enastara the Red

124

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 1 1

contacted by the Provincial Overseer to serve as one of his agents, the
Overseer’s Hand. Tatoukal reports to Dagius Furius in Boldhome.
Bearing a bronze rod topped with a silver hand, Tatoukal’s job is
to be the Provincial Overseer’s eyes and ears in Wulfsland.
Tatoukal knows that his predecessor, Pandarious, died during an
incident at Dangerford. Tatoukal is uncertain what happened, but
rumors persist that a supporter of General Fazzur had Pandarious
killed. Tatoukal would like to know the truth of these serious allegations, but too few people who were present seem willing to talk.

The leader of the Daughters of Mabodh is Enastara the Red,
former warband leader of the Split Waters clan. Enastara drifts
between Red Cow, Dangerford, and Jonstown, often in disguise
to avoid Lunar assassins.
The active membership of the daughters is around 50, although
there are 1000 Maboder among the thralls of Wulfsland and another
200-300 refugees who married into nearby clans.

MABODER REBEL LEADER:
ENASTARA THE RED gWt
Enastara can barely sleep at nights for guilt. She was one of the
leaders of the Black Moon Massacre which prompted Telmori
rage; a rage that spilled into the destruction of her clan and tribe.
Enastara longs for atonement by re-making her tribe, gathering
the scattered survivors, and forcing out Jomes. Like Orlanth, she
will fix what she has broken.
Enastara is unsurprised by the lack of aid for her people from
their neighbors — the Red Cow clan killed her father Narden BlackMood in a feud — why would they care about her people now?
Despite advancing years, Enastara still maintains the beauty
that led many to follow her lead. Her blue eyes still flash and long
brown hair has yet to be touched with gray.

Tatoukal Blackbeard /yW
Nation: Aggar
Faction: Imperial Loyalists
Age: 55
Keywords: Spy
Magic: Initiate of Irripi Ontor /
Look: Bald head, long gray beard, rod of office

THE DAUGHTERS OF MABODH
Scattered Maboder survivors exist within nearby clans and as slaves
in Wulfsland. The Daughters of Mabodh have never accepted that
the fate of their people is to be Lunar slaves and work to recover
that which was lost. The Daughters have secreted much of the
tribal regalia, though some is missing, and the Black Oak Throne
is in Jomes’ hands. The other tribes make little effort to help the
Daughters; the return of the Maboder would disrupt the new
balance of power within the Jonstown Confederation.

Enastara the Red gWt
Faction: Daughters of Mabodh
Age: 48
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth — Vinga sub-cult g
Look: Blue eyes, long brown hair, yellow cloak

WULFLANDERS
From left to right: Jomes ‘Wulf’ Hostralos, Tatoukal Blackbeard, Enastara the Red

Wulfsland

125

• Chapter 12 •

THE TELMORI
HSUNCHEN
Hsunchen is a scholarly
name for the many
primitive tribes who
worship animal ancestors
as their primary deity.
They regard all their
spirits to be of their
animal totem i.e. wolf,
bear, lion despite the
physical shape that a
member of the tribe
takes. Usually they know
magic that allows them
to reshape as either
human or animal.
When Telmor and his
pack ate the Sun, the
Long Winter began.
After the Long Winter,
the surviving Hsunchen
existed in small groups
mostly living in
isolation. In Fronela,
the Hykimi were an
exception. Neighboring
Dawn Age cultures such
as the Lightbringers,
Kralorelans and the
Seshnegi overwhelmed
most Hsunchen
groups. Their animal
background was
forgotten apart from
clan history, lineage
stories, or ancestral tales.
A few thrived such as the
Rathori and Pralori.

126

SOCIETY

T

he Telmori are primitive hunters organized in packs, use stone, and wood for tools,
and wear hides and furs. They are a Hsunchen
people who know they are descended from wolves.
The Telmori scorn towns and villages and wander
throughout their territory, relying on natural shelters
such as caves for their ‘dens’. Their technology is
similar to people from the Paleolithic, instead of the
Bronze Age of their Orlanthi neighbors.
People have little property, because when people
transform to wolf form every Wildday they have
no hands to carry possessions. Clothes are hides,
bound together with sinew and gut, weapons are
flint and wood, and cooking implements are skins
and bone. Everything is functional and crude. The
Telmori have little need to trade with outsiders,
further isolating them.
The Telmori are unusual even amongst Hsunchen,
for the level to which they incorporate their beast
brothers into their society and web of dependence
and integration. Their shamans change places with
their brother wolves.
Men and women hunt, make tools, gather food,
and perform chores around the camp. Ability not
gender determines roles. The women are no less hardy
than men, except when heavily pregnant, and the pack
often takes refuge in their hidden dens at that time.
The pack centers on the mothers, revering the
Life Keepers, and people trace their descent through
the female line. Men join the pack by marriage,
chosen from among the most promising bachelors
by the pack’s leader, when a woman becomes old
enough to marry or her husband dies. Packs avoid
marriage with people who are closer than second
cousins, but do not marry outside the Telmori,
which would be ‘bestiality.’ Although descent is
determined through the female side, social structure
is that of a wolf pack.
A pack is usually small, about 10-30 people,
centered on a leader, with the others ranked according to their relationship to the leader. Leadership
is personal. People become leaders because others
follow them; leadership shifts as people come and
go from the pack and as people succeed or fail. The

pack is more important than the individual is. A
pack has one family of wolves associated with them.
There are 10,000 Telmori in Dragon Pass. Most
live in the area around the Wolf Hills, Torkan’s Vale,
Dogbone Hills, and Stagland in Sartar. Of those
5,500 are adults and the remainder children. Of
the adults some 800 have lived long enough to be
elders (60+). A typical pack consists of 12 adults and
8 children, with none of the adults being an elder.
Most Telmori are hunter-gatherers. There are
no more than 60 shamans amongst the packs; most
are Tergavi supported by multiple packs related by
matrilineal descent. Usually only one shaman in a
generation is an Ituvanu. The packs support 250
full-time warriors, or braves. A hundred of these are
members of the Telmori Royal Guard; the others lead
raids on the Telmori’s neighbors to steal sheep or even
cattle. This number conceals the effectiveness of the
Telmori in war, because immunity to non-magical
weapons in wolf form means that a Telmori werewolf
is more than a match for any Orlanthi militia fighter.
Packs have distinctive facial tattoos that mark
membership. The lower jaw is left clean, in contrast
to the inked faces.
When local resources permit, such as in Earth
Season, packs related via the female line gather to
worship and socialize and as many as a 100 people
may be in one camp at a time. Packs may come into
conflict with each other over access to resources such
as territory or women. Raiding and feuds are common.
Men who wish to mate have to leave the pack
after adulthood. They may marry into another pack,
or join or form one of the many bachelor packs
roaming the fringes of the Telmori lands.
Packs tend to keep to a traditional, but ill-defined
territory. When packs meet, the outcome depends upon
the relationship between the leaders, not on custom.
Spirits often protect the dens, but they are not
always inhabited. The dens are the closest dwellings
to permanent villages the Wolf People have. Pregnant
women, nursing mothers, and elders may live in these
dens throughout the year. These ‘permanent’ residents
supplement their diet from hunting and gathering with
horticulture. Sartar wed the Telmori leader Harung
Thongtop to Ground-berry Green-Blush, a bush
dryad whose children have been cultivated around
these dens by selected men and women ever since.

TELMORI LONG BARROWS

TELMORI DANCING

The Telmori roamed throughout Cinsina lands during The
Years in Hiding, and a number of Telmori long barrows
remain there from those years. The Cinsina know these
are haunted places, cursed by Telmori shamans, and
containing the spirits of Telmori ancestors. The Cinsina
avoid them as taboo places and warn off adventurers
who might try to rob them, for fear of what they would
unleash. Only with the efforts of Kolating shaman can
such places be cleared for farming.
Violation of such a barrow is taboo and brings the
wrath of the Telmori.

Telmori religious ceremonies involve dancing to celebrate
the hunt, to heal, to cleanse the earth of evil spirits, to
remember their ancestors. The dances act out the stories
of the great spirits and ancestors of the people. The dancers wear sacred regalia, gathered for the dance, such as
breastplates of animal bones or feathers. Each dancer
must gather their regalia by themselves. A Telmori’s
wolf brother participates in the dance, and the two move
in harmony to the beat of the drum, the main Telmori
musical instrument. Around them, the pack raises their
voices in a Howl.
The Telmori raise a Howl in other circumstances.
Before a hunt, the hunters howl to bind the hunting band
together. After a hunt the Telmori howl to re-assemble their
scattered members. Warriors howl before a warband sets
off, and Telmori passing through another pack’s territory
will howl to alert the other pack that they wish to pass
through. Finally howling is also used as a warning, when
strangers or enemies enter a pack’s territory.

The dead, both human and wolf, are taken to banked enclosures
near to these dens. There the bodies are exposed to the elements and
the effect of predators, until only the bones remain. The skeletons
are then carried into a timbered mortuary where they are interned,
sometimes with goods that were important to them in life.
Only a Tergavi shaman is allowed to enter the mortuary, or
touch the bones of the ancestors. The entrance to the barrow is
used for public ceremonial activity.
Once a mortuary is filled, the Telmori cover it with turf,
returning the ancestors to the safety of Grandmother Earth,
leaving a long barrow.
There is no body of law or established punishments; the packs
make their own rules, however there are taboos such as cutting
Grandmother Earth’s skin with a plow.
When external forces or disaster threatens, the packs gather
as a tribe until the danger passes. These gatherings form around
charismatic and popular leaders, who the Orlanthi often style kings
or chieftains, though their positions have no formality. Leaders
depend upon their personal ability and continued successes for
their authority. Kostajor is the leader most recognized by outsiders
and often confused as their king, though he has done little in
recent years, since the death of his wolf brother, and is an old man.

WOLF BROTHER
The Telmori know that there is no difference between two-legged
and four-legged members of the pack. All share a common ancestor. A Telmori addresses a wolf as ‘brother,’ ‘sister,’ or even ‘wife.’
Children play with cubs from infancy, and learn to hunt with them.
As part of the initiation rites into adulthood, a Telmori finds
his or her “wolf brother.” Human and wolf brother are companions
in life, hunting, and warfare. Their bond is closer than between
siblings or lovers, and for life. As man and wolf train together, it
is possible to increase their communication beyond mere verbal
commands. A Telmori will demand equal booty from successes
for his beast, defend it with his life, and listen to it as much as
any chieftain or king.
The size and intelligence of a wolf brother lends status to his
human companion within the pack. If the wolf brother dies, or
is killed, another may not be found. Telmori wolves are of greater
size and intelligence than normal wolves.

HISTORY
Before the First Age, the Telmori lived in northern Ralios and
southeastern Fronela. The Fronelan Telmori tribes allied with the
Bright Empire in the First Age. The god Nysalor, who guided the
Bright Empire, blessed his allies by enabling them to take wolf
form without magical aid.
In 470, Nysalor’s enemy, a Westerner called Arkat, crushed
and scattered the Telmori. Those who fled to Fronela were later
defeated and cursed by Talor the Laughing Warrior forcing them
to take wolf form once a week, every Wildday. Talor revealed that
Nysalor’s blessing carried the taint of Chaos. Reviled and feared
the Telmori fled east dispersing from Ralios to Dragon Pass.
The descendants of those who served the Bright Empire lose
control over the animal half of their spirit and become wolves from
dusk to dawn each Wildday. Their shape-changing ability transforms
man into a wolf. In wolf form, instinct takes control, and reason
dims. Personality is continuous. A person remembers their actions
as a wolf, and a wolf remembers their actions as a person, but in
each form, actions in the other seem strange, almost dreamlike.
When they take the form of wolves, their hides cannot be cut
by bronze or bone, crushed by stone or wood, or mangled by flesh
or claw (iron, magic, and enchanted weapons harm them as they
would normally). The Telmori take wolf form as soon as the sun goes
down on Wildday and remain a wolf until sunrise; a few possess the
magical power to become wolves on any day they want.
Attempting to harm a Telmori with un-enchanted weapon
has a Nearly Impossible resistance. Enhancing a weapon with
magic helps it cut through a Telmori’s hide, but the wolf ’s hide
still blunts the force of the weapon, and fighting a Telmori with
magic has a High or Very High resistance.

The Telmori

127

WEREWOLVES AND
THE FULL MOON
Because of the
association of both the
Red Moon and the
Telmori with Chaos, the
fall of Full Moon Day
on Wildday in Dragon
Pass has led many to
believe that the Telmori
become werewolves with
the Full Moon. In fact,
the curse predates the
return of the Moon to
the Middle Air.

Powerful Telmori know Spirit Magic that allows
them to ‘wear their skins’, clothing themselves in their
protective hides as though it were a cloak, with their
human face peering from within the jaws of their wolf
one. In this way, a Telmori is able to gain the protection of his skin from normal weapons over much of
his body, although a few vulnerable parts remain like
the face. When a Telmori wears his skin, the head is
animated, the eyes swiveling, the nose sniffing at the
air, the tongue panting — and the Telmori is able to
take advantage of his wolf senses in this form.
This immunity to weapons is one reason why
the clans fear the Telmori and have fallen so many
times to their attacks.

RELIGION
Hsunchen people descend from an animal ancestor
and are kin to beasts. Their shamans help them to
connect with their heritage, to restore their lost

128

parts of their souls, giving them the animal powers
their ancestors once lost. During initiation into
adulthood, Hsunchen learn to recognize and awaken
the animal half of their spirits. All adult Hsunchen
are able to take at least some physical features of
their associated beast, and their heroes can usually
transform themselves fully.
All Hsunchen peoples share the Korgatsu
Tradition. Korgatsu is the most popular Hsunchen
name of the Cosmic Dragon (sometimes said to
be a serpent) that was torn apart, and whose parts
made the universe and its inhabitants. When
Death came into the world the faithful and moral
among the people found Korgatsu again in the
Spirit World. They learned how to help descendants who were still living, how to be reborn
again, and what new ceremonies were necessary
to preserve the world.
Only shamans can contact Korgatsu directly,
who provides those brave enough to do so with
esoteric and cosmic insights. Most people instead
worship their animal ancestor. Everyone has access

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 12

THE TELMORI ROYAL GUARD
Sartar brought the Telmori Ostling Four-wolf, to be their
king. Ostling knew the secrets of their Wildday change
and the people had hope that their curse could be lifted.
Sartar’s granddaughter, Onelisin Cat-Witch took Ostling
Four-wolf as a lover. Their child was Kostajor Wolf-Champion
who was always loyal to his kin, and he formed the Telmori
Royal Guard to protect the House of Sartar.
The Telmori Royal Guard comprises a hundred braves
— who swear loyalty unto death to the House of Sartar.
When one of the bodyguards dies, the body is sent home
to the Wolf Hills and another brave travels to Boldhome
takes their place. When a body cannot be recovered then
there is no replacement — the bodyguard once numbered
a hundred and twenty. Competition for places is intense,
for service is a great honor. Dead members of the Telmori
Royal Guard are buried in long barrows reserved exclusively for them.
The Telmori follow their oath with devotion, and the
bodyguard would rather die than fail to carry out their
duty. Only death frees a Telmori from this oath, even if
he has retired. Kostajor Wolf-Champion has honored the
oath many times during and since his service with the
Telmori Royal Guard.
The bodyguards learn to use bronze weapons, increasing their ability to protect the Prince when not in wolf form.

to minor animal spirits of the tradition, many of whom have no
human descendants to help with everyday tasks.

SPIRIT SOCIETIES
A number of spirits are important to the Telmori.
Telmor is the father of all wolves, and all Telmori join his
worship. Without him, they would not be people. There is little
differentiation between men and women or between humans and
wolves. The Telmor Spirit Society is the center of the tradition and
the choice for most people, who do not want to become shamans.
Some spirits, companions of Telmor, such as Lorel the Hunter
and Denmother provide more specialized choices. Others such
as Tergavi and Itavanu are the preserve of shamans. Still other
like Earthmaker, Earth Witch, The Four Companions, Raven
the Trickster, Spider Woman, the King of Above and the King of
Below are known but people do not worship them.

TELMOR Bt
Hykim and Mikyh are the founders of the Animal Tribes. They
had many children, the last of whom was the Mother of Mammals.
She had many children, including Fralar, the god of carnivores.
Fralar’s greatest child was Telmor, Father of Wolves. In the Gods
War, Telmor and his pack ate the Sun, and began the Long
Winter. As such Telmor is not just the ancestor of the Telmori
but a death god.

LOREL THE HUNTER STAR .s
Lorel is one of the children of the First Hunter. He is the chief of
the Hunting Spirits and unlike his father is accessible to people.
Every year he circles all the way around the sky performing his
duties. He is the patron of bachelor packs and archery. He is also
young and naive, well-intentioned but ill-informed and without
wisdom or experience.

DENMOTHER el
Denmother is the spirit of domestic activity for the Telmori,
sometimes considered the patron of older women. She discovered
and raised Lorel during the Great Darkness. Cave paintings depict
Denmother as a comely old woman bearing a chopping knife and
cooking skins. Denmother is loving, caring, and responsible to
her children. She is a source of healing and blessings.

TERGAVI b,
After Telmor and his pack ate the Sun, many became confused as
to who was living and who was dead. Tergavi was the pack member
who could scent the difference. He stopped the dead from haunting
the pack by appeasing their spirits and sending them away. Then he
protected the living by marking the places where the dead dwelt.
Tergavi, or ‘See All,’ are the shamans of the Telmori. Tergavi
deal with the spirits of the ancestors and alone know the pack’s
most sacred holy places, where the bones of the ancestors lie. They
mark these places so that others will not stumble across them.
Only Tergavi may use the sacred paints that adorn the walls of
the pack’s caves, appease the animal ancestors, and keep the game
returning year-after-year.

ITUVANU bR
In the Long Winter, many monsters and spirits attacked the Telmori
people. Ituvanu recognized the power of the outsiders, and rather
than being afraid of them, sought to harness it for the good of the
tribe. Everyone else thought Ituvanu crazy, but Ituvanu had always
been happy to endure pain and suffering for the sake of his pack.
In every generation, a few rare individuals come to his practice.
Followers of Ituvanu enter the Spirit World to seek out powerful
spirits from outside the tradition and bind them. The practice
offers no spirits of its own; instead, the shaman must always deal
with outsiders. This activity pollutes Ituvanu shamans who may
not interact with spirits from within the Telmori tradition. In
compensation, the Ituvanu shaman may use the founder’s secrets
to bind spirits from outside the tradition. This is a dangerous
activity, for binding these spirits makes an enemy of their tradition. Followers of the offended practice will always be hostile to
the shaman, and spirits may ambush him in the Spirit World.

NARRATING
THE TELMORI
We have not provided keywords for the Telmori people or their
religion. The Telmori are an enemy people and this campaign does
not focus on playing the Telmori as characters.

The Telmori

129

For enemies you only need two things in HeroQuest Glorantha,
a resistance, set from your own judgment or the pass/fail cycle,
and guidance on how to portray them. See the Sartar Companion
pages 140-141 for a typical Telmori encounter.
Here, we outline how to run typical Telmori characters that
the PCs might meet. Make up new animist magical powers or
cultural details as you see fit. You do not have to explain, instead
focus on the needs of the story when thinking about what your
Telmori need to do.

TELMORI HUNTER
Within the Wolf Ridges, this is a family hunting food. Away from
the Wolf Ridges, this is likely to be a bachelor pack. A hunt begins
with the Howl, warning other packs away from the area. Desperate
hunters will rustle sheep, cows, and pigs from nearby Orlanthi. The
Telmori hunters work in co-operation with their wolf brothers.
Hunters use flint-tipped javelins to bring down game, and finish the
wounded animal with flint knives and hand axes. Telmori hunters
use spirits to help them with their work. Some hunters are members
of the Lorel the Hunter Star Spirit Society. They are easy to spot,
being the only Telmori who know the secret of bows.

TELMORI BRAVE
Within the Wolf Ridges, Telmori braves may be patrolling their
pack’s territory, but they might be a war party feuding with other
packs. Outside of the Wolf Ridges, this is always a war party bent
on killing Orlanthi. A war party begins at night with dances and
painting as the Telmori call for the favor of Telmor in smiting their
enemies. The shaman may torture and mutilate the pack’s enemies,
tied to upright stakes, as the drums beat in frenzy, and the brave’s
imbibe the sacred mushroom drinks. The braves paint their faces
black, black face paint is for war alone. The next day, as the drums
resound, the Telmori braves run to meet their enemies. The usual
Telmori tactic is guerilla warfare. They strike from ambush, and
retreat when outnumbered. The club, tomahawk, and knife are
the weapons of war. A brave shows his courage in hand-to-hand
fighting, scrabbling on the floor with his enemy and so braves do
not use missile weapons. Often war parties attack on Wildday so
that the braves will be shape-changed into werewolves when they
attack. A brave often uses Spirit Magic to don his wolf-skin and
protect himself against un-enchanted weapons, bite his foe, or
rake him with his claws.

TELMORI WAR CHIEF
A war chief leads a war party. He comes to the fore in times of
trouble when war threatens the packs. While the pack is at war,
all the braves in the pack must obey him. This is true even when
several packs join to make war on their enemies. When the war
ends, he has no authority. Men choose a war chief to follow, by
picking the bravest and smartest fighter amongst them. War chiefs
are charismatic individuals who hold their band together by sheer
force of personality. Braves flock to successful war chiefs, and desert
those who lose. A Telmori war chief is always a bold and resourceful
leader, otherwise he would not have gained a following, and you

130

should play them as such. Wolf brothers of equal stature always
accompany such men. Orlanthi often mistake important war
chiefs for chieftains or even kings, but they have no such status.
The most famous Telmori war chief is Kostajor Wolf-Champion
who foolish Sartarites often think of as the ‘King of the Telmori.’
Kostajor was war chief for all the packs, when they combined to
slaughter the Maboder. A war chief has certain privileges, such as all
the loot from a raid, and certain obligations, including rewarding
all his followers. Telmori war chiefs may use leadership magic like
Summon War Party with Howl and Rally War Party.

TELMORI SHAMAN
The Telmori shaman is the spiritual leader of the people. Not all
packs have a shaman, but all of the packs have contact with them
at the gatherings. A shaman is always different, even contrary.
They behave in strange ways such as dressing in the opposite
sex’s clothing or cutting their hair. They break taboos such as
wounding Grandmother Earth’s skin or wearing black face paint
when it is not war. Most shamans are Tergavi who deal with the
dead. They wear necklaces of bones. They paint their bodies black
and outline their own skeletons in white. They carry the sacred
paints that they use to paint the den walls with pictures of the
dead. They talk to dead people. A spirit wolf brother accompanies
them, their fetch, which guards their form when they journey to
the Other Side. They can swap bodies with their wolf brother.
Far more frightening though is the Ituvanu shaman who deals
with ‘demons’ from other traditions, enslaving them to his will.
PCs can recognize such a shaman because he fails to cast a normal
shadow. Instead, his shadow moves of its own accord, for it is the
shaman’s fetch. It glides and flows invisibly through shadows, or
flows unsettlingly across ground and walls in full daylight. The
magic such shaman can wield is unpredictable as it is all stolen.
Ituvanu shaman often use giant snakes as servants and assassins.

IMPORTANT PEOPLE OF
THE TELMORI
The Telmori want to drive Jomes Hostralos from Wulfsland. In
1618, a new leader, the Telmori shaman Jogar Sog emerges. Unafraid
of Jomes and driven by visions of his people’s doom in the Hero
Wars, he is uncaring of the settlements made after the Wolf Hunt.
Jogar is determined to prevent his people’s doom by driving
the humans out of Dragon Pass. He has seen in a vision that the
Sartarites will kill them in the Hero Wars. Filled with fear, Jogar has
little mercy, captives are sadistically tortured and their mutilated
bodies left as warnings to others.
Kostajor Wolf-Champion has yet to challenge Jogar, though
he is known to have been loyal to the Royal House. An old man
now, he rarely speaks on such issues, though his words will carry
great weight if he does.
Goram White-Fang is an enemy of Jogar, but his absence at
Prince Temertain’s side has allowed Jogar space to influence the
young Telmori braves.

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 12

THE TELMORI
From left to right: Kostajor Wolf-champion, Black-Paw Helkos, Goram White-Fang, Jogar Sog

KOSTAJOR WOLF-CHAMPION
AND HIS SONS
TELMORI ‘KING’:
KOSTAJOR WOLF-CHAMPION gBb
The Orlanthi tribal leaders assume that the Telmori tribe must
have a king. This is a misunderstanding of Telmori culture, but
when the Telmori deal with the Orlanthi Kostajor Wolf-Champion
stands in for them as their ‘king.’ Kostajor is over eighty-years old,
and respected for his wisdom in guiding the people.
Kostajor is the son of Ostling Four-wolf, ‘King of the Telmori,’
and Onelisin Cat-Witch the granddaughter of Sartar. He is continually torn between his savage Telmori nature and the loyalty
he has to his mother’s kin. The savagery of his five sons, the
Helkos Brothers, is tamed only by their loyalty to their father’s
Royal House.
An old man now, Kostajor is still one of the most famous warriors in Dragon Pass. He formed part of the Telmori bodyguard
to Prince Jarolar Longstride of Sartar as a young brave. He saved
Jarolar’s son, Prince Jarosar Longarrow, from the disastrous defeat
at Dwarf Run. He was one of the trusted advisers of Tarkalor
Trollkiller, both in his war with the Kitori and the conflict in
Tarsh; he saved Tarkalor’s son Terasarin at Grizzly Peak. Even as
an old man, Prince Terasarin sought his counsel. He was too old
to fight with the Household of Death, but he sheltered Kallyr
Starbrow when she fled Lunar assassins.
He led his people against the Maboder tribe when they broke
Sartar’s treaties — and Kallyr showed the loyalty of the House
of Sartar by fighting alongside him then. Jomes killed his wolf

brother and one of his sons in the subsequent fight, and a broken
hearted Kostajor sued for peace. He still hates Jomes, who now
wears the skin of his wolf brother as a cloak.
Kostajor has never recovered from the death of his wolf brother.
His grandson is now a hostage — at the mercy of Queen Ivartha.
The light has gone out of the old man’s eyes, and he has grown
thin and wasted. Many people whisper that perhaps it would have
been better if he had died along with his wolf brother instead of
being tortured by the years that were to come.
Now Kostajor sits quietly by the fire. He hunts only on Wildday
when he assumes wolf-form. Some say he waits for death, others
that he waits patiently and quietly to have his vengeance on Jomes.
Kostajor Wolf-Champion gBb
Faction: Telmori
Age: 82
Keywords: War Chief
Magic: Telmor Spirit Society B
Look: Gray hair, tall, thin

WAR CHIEF:
BLACK-PAWS HELKOS gBt
Black-Paws Helkos is the oldest son of Kostajor Wolf-Champion.
Jomes Hostralos killed one of his five brothers and Black-Paws
has sworn revenge against Jomes for this act. Now only Helkos
and his brother Goram survive from amongst Kostajor’s children.

The Telmori

131

THE HELKOS
BROTHERS
Kostajor WolfChampion had five sons,
the Helkos Brothers —
who were notorious both
for their savagery in
battle and their loyalty
to the House of Sartar.
All were descendants of
Sartar. They were the
backbone of the Telmori
Royal Guard, which was
founded by their father
to protect the Royal
House of Sartar.
Two of the Helkos
brother died at the
Battle of Grizzly Peak.
They gave their lives
so that their father
might escape from that
slaughter with the heir
to the throne, Terasarin.
Prince Terasarin kept
close council with those
who had saved him as
a boy. To the disgust of
many in the Jonstown
Confederation, he
married the remaining
three Helkos Brothers
to his daughters. That
ended tragically when
Terasarin’s daughters
were killed in the
Holy Country, with
no children.
When the Maboder
defied Sartar’s treaties
with the Telmori,
the Helkos Brothers
were the leaders of the
destruction of that
tribe. Jomes Hostralos
captured two of them,
and executed one of
them to prove his word.
Now only Black-Paws
Helkos and Goram
White-Fang remain.

132

Black-Paws served in the Telmori Royal Guard
— as such he dresses in ‘civilized’ clothing of tunic
and trousers, wears gold and silver arm rings, and
carries a spear, sword, and shield. This may surprise
people only used to seeing Telmori savages.
His first wife was a daughter of Prince Terasarin.
She died in the Holy Country before they had
children.
After that Black-Paws turned his back on his
brothers’ service to the House of Sartar. He does
meet with Kallyr Starbrow and considers her the
true heir to the throne. He would sell his life to
protect her, much as his father would have sold his.
Seven summers ago, while stalking deer, BlackPaws came across a group of Orlanthi attacking the
camp of Laguala Red-Snout. He led his small party
of hunters to the rescue of the camp, driving off the
attackers, who included Frekor Deep-Woods of the
Red Cow. Laguala was grateful and offered Helkos
his two daughters in marriage. Their younger sister,
Sihala Sweet-Laugh begged her father not to part her
from her sisters and so became Black-Paws’ wife as
well. Leikorl the Shadow killed Sihala Sweet-Laugh
on Wildday, and skinned her to wear as a trophy.
Black-Paws howled for seven days to mourn her.
He has sworn vengeance upon Leikorl for the act.
Black-Paws still has three wives, and so spends
many hours stalking deer in Stagland, to escape their
nagging. He tries to avoid Red Cow or Wulfsland
hunters, for fear of breaking the treaty, but kills any
foolish enough to try to hunt him.
Four years ago when a Telmori hunting pack
stole a red cow from Cloudburst Stead, along the
Heort Creek, Borngold Many-Brothers demanded
retribution. With Aethelric the Girl, he tracked the
Telmori to Black-Paws’ pack. Citing Sartar’s treaty,
Borngold demanded compensation and the brave
who had stolen the cow. Black-Paws refused claiming
that the brave was a guest from another pack, and
that he had no authority over him.
Borngold complained to Queen Ivartha, and they
led a band of the Wolf Skinners into the Wolf Hills
seeking vengeance. When Black-Paws again refused
to hand over the brave, the two sides clashed at Pine
Stand. Borngold and Ivartha’s forces were beaten
back, and the Queen and Red Cow councilor were
among the few survivors to escape.
Since then, his pack has waged guerilla war
with the Sartarite clans along the border, and the
Wulfslanders. Jomes has put a price on his head. He
has killed seven who have tried to claim the bounty.
Black-Paws’ only son by his second wife, Ostling,
remains a hostage in Queen Ivartha’s household.
Black-Paws is worried that Ivartha will decide that
his pack’s acts are enough justification to kill his
son. If Ostling were killed, then Black-Paws would
seek vengeance.

Black-Paws Helkos gBt
Faction: Telmori
Age: 54
Keywords: War Chief
Magic: Telmor Spirit Society B
Look: High cheek-bones, long black hair, tall

PRINCE OF SARTAR’S BODYGUARD:
GORAM WHITE-FANG gBW
Goram White-Fang is the current leader of the
Telmori Royal Guard, the bodyguard of the Prince
of Sartar. He is devoted to that service.
Goram is dour, taciturn and silent. He dislikes
those who do not take life seriously, those who speak
at unnecessary length or just indulge in small talk.
Temertain’s court regard him as humorless, he regards
them as unworldly. As a result, Goram keeps to the
company of his men, and keeps the Prince’s court
out of his path.
Goram is one of the Helkos Brothers. His father
is Kostajor Wolf-Champion, his great-grandfather
Prince Sartar. It is from the blood-kinship that his
loyalty to the House of Sartar stems. Like Black-Paws,
he dresses as a ‘civilized’ Orlanthi and uses metal
weapons and armor.
When the Telmori rose against the Maboder,
Goram White-Fang led the Royal Guard against the
Orlanthi, because the Maboder had broken Sartar’s
treaties and a descendant of the Royal House, Kallyr
Starbrow, fought alongside the Telmori. In 1613,
when Starbrow raised the tribes in rebellion, he fought
alongside her.
But now with a member of the Royal House in
Boldhome, Goram obeys the Prince — as he once
obeyed Kallyr. Goram sometimes chafes at obeying
Prince Temertain; he preferred Kallyr, but he knows
that sacred oaths are often difficult — the power lies
in keeping them. The only thing that might free him
from his oath would be if the Prince obviously broke
Sartar’s promise to help free the Telmori of their curse.
For now, Goram remains aloof from Telmori politics, though he fears Jogar Sog’s influence, believing
that the Ituvanu are dangerous and make pacts with
forces beyond their control.
Goram White-Fang gBW
Faction: Telmori
Age: 47
Keywords: War Chief
Magic: Telmor Spirit Society B
Look: Dark hair, tall, long mustache,
usually ‘wearing his skin’

COMING STORM — CHAPTER 12

INDEX OF REBEL AND LUNAR NPCS
Name

Position

Faction

Page

Telmori ‘King’

Telmori

131

Goram White-Fang

Telmori Royal Guard

Telmori

132

Black-Paws Helkos

War Chief

Telmori

131

Ituvanu Shaman

Telmori

133

Kostajor Wolf-Champion

Jogar Sog

THE PRIESTS
ITUVANU SHAMAN:
JOGAR SOG Bb
Jogar Sog is the son of Minanco Sog, who some called White
Snout. His mother was Vorena the Rattle, the daughter of Kostajor
Wolf-Champion. Her siblings are the Helkos Brothers. As such,
Black-Paws is his uncle and Kostajor his great-uncle. It also means
that Jogar is related to the House of Sartar, a connection he has
done his best to bury the pain of, and will kill any who mention it.
Jogar proved his abilities as a warrior when the Telmori battled
to destroy Wolf Stand, the settlement Ivartha the Skinner began
in Torkan’s Vale during her exile.
On the Wolf Hunt, Jomes Hostralos blinded him in one-eye.
He began to get visions after that, and his father, a Telmor shaman,
began to instruct him in shamanic practice, taking him on Other
Side journeys. To his father’s horror it quickly became clear that
his son was an Ituvanu, one who would capture the spirits of
other traditions, binding them to his service. Minanco mourned
his son that day, for he realized he would not live to old age. Jogar
was re-born an Ituvanu shaman when he found his shadow self
on the Killing Pine.
Among the first spirits that Jogar bound to his service were
the Owl and Crow spirits that had once fought the Corvid War.
His enemies came to fear the great White Owl demon and the
cruel Black Crow.

Jogar took part in the ambush of the Wolfskinners at Pine Stand;
he was the decoy pretending to be a lame wolf. The Wolfskinners
escaped the killing ground and Aethelric the Girl took Jogar’s other
eye. He sees now through the eyes of his wolf brother.
Jogar has waged war against the Red Cow, Two-Pine, Lorthing,
and Wulfsland without cease. He killed the stickpickers who were
cutting wood in the Dogbone Hills; he took Leikorl the Shadow
hostage after the Ox-Wagon Fight and tortured him near to death
before he escaped. He still holds Leikorl’s scalp and he plans to use it
to take control of Leikorl with a snake spirit and try to kill Ivartha.
He hates all humans. He delights in their torture and wears a
cloak made from the skins of those he has flayed alive. His drums
are bound in human skin.
In addition to hunting bird spirits, Jogar has bound snake
spirits to his service. As well as deadly assassins, he often uses
his snake spirits as spies, seeing through their eyes, or to possess
victims and force their bodies to his will.
Jogar Sog Bb
Faction: Telmori
Age: 44
Keywords: Shaman
Magic: Shaman of Ituvanu b
Look: Cloak of human skin, disconnected shadow,
empty eye-sockets

The Telmori

133

• Chapter 13 •

APPENDICES
indicating anything but a superficial resemblance. No Orlanthi
GENERAL TERMINOLOGY associety
is analogous to that of the Vikings, Kelts or Anglo-Saxons;
The following terms are used in describing Gloranthan institutions. Whilst there are similarities to a greater or lesser degree
between the societies and cultures of Glorantha and those of
terrestrial history, the use of these terms should not be confused

the Lunars are neither Romans nor Babylonians. The use of
Old or Middle English or Latin terms should not be taken as
indicating an exact correspondence beyond the general meaning.
Whilst it is useful to employ historical comparisons, these can
be misleading.

Term

Meaning

Carl

A free class of farmers. To qualify, a man must have an ox-team and plow.

Chief

The head of a clan.

Cottar

A free class of farmers, usually shepherds.

EWF

The Empire of the Wyrms Friends; the empire which dominated Dragon Pass in the Second Age.

Fyrd

The militia of a clan.

God-talker

Holy person chosen by the gods to communicate with them.

Half-carl

A free class of farmers. To qualify, a man must have half an ox-team and a plow.

Housecarl

The household troops of a chief or king.

Juror

A Lawspeaker or a person designated to speak for a clan or tribe.

King

The head of a tribe.

Kinstrife

Violent conflict within a clan.

Lawspeaker

A person knowledgeable of the laws and traditions.

Legate

A general officer of the Lunar Army.

Noble

A clan chief or a tribal king or queen.

Peltast

A type of light infantry often deployed as skirmishers.

Prince

The one who takes the ‘First’ position; the supreme ruler of Sartar.

Queen

The head of a tribe.

Shield wall

A wall of shields formed by fighters standing shoulder to shoulder, holding their shields so that they overlap.

Stead

A village.

Steadfast

A fortified village.

Stickpicker

Lowest free class in Orlanthi society.

Thane

The head of a household, a merchant, a god-talker, craftsperson, a housecarl, a member of the clan council.

Thrall

A slave, legally not identified as a person.

Triaty

A set of three clans which only take wives from each other.

Tula

The land of an Orlanthi clan.

Vexilla

A sub-division of the Lunar Army, often composed of companies from several regiments.

Wergild

The legal reparation due according to the value of an individual in restitution for injury or death.

Wyter

A spirit or minor god, which represents a community of Orlanthi.

134

MILITARY TERMINOLOGY
Type

Meaning

Heavy Infantry

Typically armored with bronze or leather armor and armed with spear and sword. Heavy Infantry
most typically fights in a phalanx or shield wall. A regiment of Heavy Infantry is typically around
1,000 soldiers.

Light Infantry

Light infantry is used as a skirmishing screen ahead of the main body of infantry. A regiment of Light
Infantry is typically around 1,000 soldiers.

Light Cavalry

Armed with missile weapons, typically bows or throwing javelins. They skirmish with the foe,
withdrawing from any offensive only to turn around and counterattack once the offensive is spent.
A regiment of Light Cavalry is typically around 500 soldiers.

Heavy Cavalry

Engages in direct contact with the foe, usually with lances (spears), sometimes with swords, maces,
or axes. A regiment of Heavy Cavalry is typically around 500 soldiers.

Armor

Meaning

Leather

Most commonly the linothorax or a leather lamellar cuirass. It typically includes a conical or open
bronze helmet.

Bronze

Commonly a scale or chain hauberk or a bronze breastplate. It typically includes an open or full bronze
helmet and greaves.

Weapons

Meaning

Axe

A single or double-headed cutting weapon used either one or two-handed.

Bow

Typically a self bow or a composite bow.

Javelin

A short spear between 3 and 6 feet long and balanced for throwing.

Khopesh

A sickle-sword with a curved single edged blade used for slashing and for disarming an opponent.

Kontos

A type of long cavalry lance about 12 to 14 feet long.

Kopis

A curved single-edged blade used for cutting and thrusting.

Long Spear

Between 6 and 12 feet long and usually used overhand.

Mace

Has a heavy head on a solid shaft used to bludgeon opponents.

Pike

A long thrusting spear between 10 and 25 feet long.

Rhomphaia

A straight or slightly curved single-edged blade attached to a pole considerably shorter than the blade.

Shields

Round, crescent-shaped or rectangular and come in a variety of sizes depending on the regiment.

Sling

A pouch on a cord used to throw a blunt projectile of stone, clay or lead ‘sling-bullet’.

Sword

A long, leaf-shaped blade used for cutting and thrusting.

Appendices

135

owe.gxtljscyi,p HeroQuest Glorantha Bba/RWhVKXA?u4
Hero Olend Many-Moods
Player Name Erik

Benefits & Consequences

Campaign The C oming Storm
Runes
g Air 17
f Yinkin 1W (lustful, curious, loyal)

		Initiate of Yinkin
		 Flee Jealous Husband +2
x Life 13

Distinguishing Characteristic

Vengeful 15
Standard of Living

C ommon
Keywords & Abilities

Occupation Keyword: Hunter 7W
		 Iron Arrows +2
		 Iron Hunting Knife +2
Heortling Culture (Red C ow) 13
		 Hate Dinacoli +1
Flaws

C ommunity: Red C ow Clan 13

The Emerald Sword killed my father 7W

Unspent Additional Abilities
Ability Points

Magic Points

Hero Points

owe.gxtljscyi,p HeroQuest Glorantha Bba/RWhVKXA?u4
Hero Londrol Spear-Rattler
Player Name Mark

Benefits & Consequences

Campaign The C oming Storm
Runes
g Air 5W

		Initiate of Orlanth

		 (passionate, proud, unpredictable, violent)
s Movement 13W
t Death 13

Distinguishing Characteristic

Rattle Born (see Keywords & Abilities)
Standard of Living

C ommon
Keywords & Abilities

Occupation Keyword: Mercenary 1W
Battle Born 1
		 Berserker Rage +1
		 Big and Strong +1
Heortling Culture (Red Cow) 13
		 Hate Dinacoli +1

C ommunity: Red C ow Clan 13
		Housecarl to Kangharl Black-Brow +1
		 Member of the Tormatking Bloodline +1

Flaws

Rattle Born 1W

Unspent Additional Abilities
Ability Points

Magic Points

Hero Points

owe.gxtljscyi,p HeroQuest Glorantha Bba/RWhVKXA?u4
Hero Maklami Friend of Heroes
Player Name Claudia

Benefits & Consequences

Campaign The C oming Storm
Runes
e Earth 13
l Harmony 13W

		Initiate of Ernalda
		 (forgiving, merciful, peaceful)
x Life 13

Distinguishing Characteristic

Fearless 17
Standard of Living

Prosperous
Keywords & Abilities

Occupation Keyword: Healer 2W
Heortling Culture (Red C ow) 1W
		 Adopted Daughter of Broddi Strong-Kin +1
		 Fine jewelery, clothes, and cosmetics +1
		Follower of Enastara the Red +1
Flaws

C ommunity: Red C ow Clan 13

Haughty 2W

Unspent Additional Abilities
Ability Points

Magic Points

Hero Points

owe.gxtljscyi,p HeroQuest Glorantha Bba/RWhVKXA?u4
Hero Rastalulf the Tall
Player Name Jeff

Benefits & Consequences

Campaign The C oming Storm
Runes
g Air 13
l Mastery 1W

		Initiate of Orlanth
		 Honorable +1 (proud, just, authorative)
y Truth 13

Distinguishing Characteristic

Honorable (see Runes)
Standard of Living

Prosperous
Keywords & Abilities

Occupation Keyword: Thane 7W
		Herds of Red Cows +1
		Bronze Cuirass, Greaves, and Helm +1
Heortling Culture (Red Cow) 13
C ommunity: Red C ow Clan 13
		Rival to Kangharl Black-Brow +1
		Loyalty of Enerin Bristle-Beard +1

Flaws

Trusting 7W

Unspent Additional Abilities
Ability Points 2

Magic Points

Hero Points

owe.gxtljscyi,p HeroQuest Glorantha Bba/RWhVKXA?u4
Hero Barbessa Laugh-Much
Player Name Kerstin

Benefits & Consequences

Campaign The C oming Storm
Runes
w Water 1W (mercurial, capricious)

		Initiate of Heler
		Initiate of Engizi sub-cult
s Movement 17
x Life 13

Distinguishing Characteristic

Always Laughing 17
Standard of Living

C ommon
Keywords & Abilities

Occupation Keyword: Mercenary 7W
Heortling Culture (Red C ow) 13
C ommunity: Red C ow Clan 13
		Follower of Orstalor Spearlord +1
		Follower of Borngold Many-Brothers +1

Flaws

Impulsive 7W
Unusual Appearance 1W
Unspent Additional Abilities 1
Ability Points 2

Magic Points

Hero Points

owe.gxtljscyi,p HeroQuest Glorantha Bba/RWhVKXA?u4
Hero Koschei the Weary
Player Name Ben

Benefits & Consequences

Campaign The C oming Storm
Runes
g Air 13
s Movement 1W

(adventurous, dynamic, impulsive, reckless)
		Initiate of Orlanth
		Initiate of Ulanin the Rider Initiate of Orlanth
Distinguishing Characteristic
t Death 13
Hard Bitten 15
Standard of Living

C ommon
Keywords & Abilities

Occupation Keyword: Cattle Raider 7W
Heortling Culture (Red Cow) 13
C ommunity: Red C ow Clan 13
		 Sworn Man to Kangharl Black-Brow +1
		 Member of the Tormakting bloodline +1

Companion: Lucky Alynx 15
		Alynx 20
		f Yinkin 1W
		Nine-Lives 17
Flaws

In love with Talastaring settler of Wulfsland 7W
Broddi Disapproves 1W
Unspent Additional Abilities
Ability Points

Magic Points

Hero Points

• INDEX •
A

Acts of Rebellion. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 107
Adjusted Lands.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 54
Aethelric the Girl.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 36, 38, 52, 132, 133
Aggar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 60, 119, 124, 125
Agina Wool-Hood.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 84
Air Rune .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20
Alda-Chur.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14, 31, 42, 56,
59, 70, 75, 77, 78, 85, 87, 88, 99, 103, 104, 108, 121
Alebard Long-Beard. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Alebard Longshanks .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58
Alone.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 117, 118
Alurae Sable-Fur. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80, 84, 85, 86
Amald No-Bull.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58
Amald the Spine-Crusher.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67
Amber Fields. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Ambush Hill.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 71
Ancestral Hero.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15
Andrin.45, 48, 49, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 98, 99
Andrin Rich-Horses. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 99
Andrin Rock-Buster. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Andrin Slack-Word.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80, 81, 84, 86
Andrin the Uninspired .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 98
Animal Nomads.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 111
Animal Tribes.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
Ansil.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 66
Apple Lane. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67
Areneham .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Areni Alynx-Daughter. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Arfritha Vale.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 55, 56, 67, 70
Argrath. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 15
Arim.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 123
Arir.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112
Arkat. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5, 75, 77, 127
Arlest the Unmatched.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 40
Arnbord White-Leg.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100
Aroka.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 67, 99
Aroka Lake .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67
Aronius Jaranthir.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112, 113
Arrowstone.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 85, 114
Arrowstone Cavalry.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 85, 114
Asarting.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100
Asharl the Unwashed.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Ashart Dusk-Eater.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 31, 38, 39, 52, 107
Ashart Silver-Blade. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Ashwater Fall. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 43
Aska Almond-Eyed .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37
Asmandi. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67
Asrelia .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16, 25, 43, 79, 118
Auroch Bringers.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 43
Aurochs.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6
Author of Sores.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79
Axe Orlanthi.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10

B

Babessa the Merciless. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50
Bad Boys .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 66
Bag of Winds. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13
Balanced Clan.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 95
balarn fruit .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 71
Balazar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48, 66
Bald Pig Tradition .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112
Bardrinor the Good.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32

142

Barlamani .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70, 94
Barntar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 15,
33, 34, 38, 39, 40, 52, 74, 86, 95, 99, 118, 119, 121
Barntarling .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6
Barnwulf Boys’ Feud .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Barnwulf Smooth-Tongued .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Barrow Mounds .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 31, 32
Battle of Caroman .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 44, 124
Battle of Fleet Crossing .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Battle of Fordstone.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 56
Battle of Grizzly Peak.59, 98, 99, 103, 104, 118, 132
Battle of Hofstaring’s Flood. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 98
Battle of Moonbroth. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 111
Battle of the Donalf Flats. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Battle of the Finger.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 97, 98
Battle of the Sun Horses .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 55, 74
Battle of Yellow Meadow.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 86
Battle Valley. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 67, 68, 70, 110, 111
Baztak. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26
Belintar the Stranger .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53
Beren the Rider. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 82
Bergilmer. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 24, 38, 45
Beryl Phalanx .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 107
Big Rubble.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 66, 98, 103
Biliz Highlanders .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60
Bisomen Legilus.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 111, 113, 114
Bitter Harvest Feud .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 86, 102
Black and White laws. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 113
Blackcloud.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 110
Black Crow .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 133
Black Glass Ruins.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
Black Hill Band. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 96, 98, 106
Black Horse County.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119
Black Moon.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 47, 52, 60, 119, 125
Black Moon Massacre .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60, 119, 125
Black Oak Throne .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119, 120, 123, 125
Black-Paws. . . . . . . . . . . . . .10, 58, 63, 64, 132, 133
Black-Paws Helkos.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 63, 132, 133
Black-Paws Hostralos. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Black Spear .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53
bloodline .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 11, 14,
15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 24, 28, 31, 32, 34, 35, 39, 40, 41,
43, 44, 54, 73, 74, 75, 78, 81, 83, 94, 100, 105, 112
Bloody Swords .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 93
Bloody Sword Tribute .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 31, 50, 94
Blueberries. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 91
Blueberry.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 11, 12, 30, 31,
32, 34, 45, 49, 50, 52, 67, 68, 74, 88, 91, 94, 95, 98
Blueberry Beer .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 91
Blueberry Tribute.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 94
Blueberry woman.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 45
Blueboar Fort .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57, 99
Blue Boar Fort. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67, 79, 85, 104
Blue Ghost.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 61
Blue Woman .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 43
Boldhome .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
31, 48, 49, 54, 58, 59, 60, 68, 70, 71, 75, 78, 79, 88,
91, 93, 98, 103, 105, 106, 108, 124, 125, 129, 132
Bolik Red-Turner.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 40, 47, 52
Bolthor Hairy-Breeks. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11
Bolthoring.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 19, 28, 34, 39, 40, 47, 52
Bolthoringham.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 40
Boranini.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 54, 55, 67, 88, 91, 92
Boranini River. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 55, 67, 88, 91, 92

Borden Hill .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 22, 25, 26
Bordermen .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 120, 121, 123
Border Wulf Peltasts. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 120, 121, 123
Borngold Many-Brothers .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
12, 19, 20, 32, 33, 35, 37, 41, 43, 52, 132
Borngold the Upright. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Bothies.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26
Bothy .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26, 27
Brambleberry Hills. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68, 91
Branbrig Errolsson.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58
Brangbane. 53, 58, 71, 80, 95, 97, 104, 115, 116, 117
Brave Tribe .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 22, 61
Brazen Skull. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Bread Rebel(s). .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 107
Brekun .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37
Bright Empire.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 111, 127
Brightwater .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 31
Broddi Strong-Kin.12, 15, 18, 19, 20, 24, 32, 33, 37,
38, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 49, 50, 52, 65, 67, 83, 86, 87, 93
Brofin.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60, 86, 87
Brofin the Beardless.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60, 86
Brohard HairyBreeks.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Brokar Sure-Handed .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Bronze .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19, 37, 63, 88, 91, 106, 126, 135
Broyan .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50, 78, 102, 105, 106
Broyan Never-Quiet. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50, 102
Broyan of Whitewall .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105
Broyan the brewer .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78
Broyan the cook .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78
Broyan the smith .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78
Brusting.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 55
Bruthi the Gray. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 45
Brygghel Many-Kin.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 93
Bull Leapers. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 71
Bullmen.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 66
Bull Priest .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65, 66
Burners of Eoric’s Stead feud .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50
Burning of Eoric’s Stead. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48, 49
Burnt Oak .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
Burnt River .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Burnt Wood. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
Bush Range .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 36
Buthur Dog-Nose.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 111, 112, 113, 114

C

Camille the Quick .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 61, 62, 63, 64, 66
Candle Dancers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
Carls.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 36
Carmania.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112, 113, 114
Carmanian. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112, 113
Carmanian Empire. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 113
Caroman .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 44, 49, 50, 86, 124
Caroman Pass.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50, 86, 124
Castle of Black Glass .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53
Cataphract.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112, 113
Cattle Raid. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20
Celestial Court .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12
Chalana Arroy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64, 65, 70, 100, 102
Chaos. . 5, 7, 10, 14, 16, 39, 66, 73, 74, 79, 127, 128
Cheap Six Pack.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 113
Cherry Ridge. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68
Chest-Breaker.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 93
Chief Priest .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 52, 88, 91, 93

Chieftain .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 22, 32, 33, 48, 52, 61,
77, 80, 81, 82, 86, 88, 91, 93, 95, 96, 97, 98, 100, 102
Cinsina. .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 12, 18, 22, 26, 27,
32, 33, 34, 38, 43, 48, 49, 50, 53, 54, 57, 58, 59, 60,
61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 72, 73, 74, 75, 77, 78,
79, 80, 81, 86, 87, 88, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 98, 99, 101,
102, 103, 105, 106, 107, 110, 111, 115, 119, 127
Cinsina Ring.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 62, 64
Cinsin Bridge .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 71, 88
Cinsin the Wolfskinner.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 57, 58, 61
City of 10,000 Magicians.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 124
City Ring.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 60
Claw Rebel(s) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 107
Clearwine .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6
Cloudburst Stead .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 132
Cloud Folk. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 15
Cold Hard Iron Tribute.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 35, 61
Colymar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
6, 7, 12, 16, 30, 53, 54, 55, 59, 60, 67, 72, 75, 105
Colymar Campaign.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6
Conquering Daughter.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
Conquering Storm.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
12, 34, 37, 38, 44, 45, 52, 95, 97, 98
Copper Ingots Feud.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Corvid War.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 133
Cosmic Dragon. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 128
Cottars.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 24
Council of Gray Sages.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
crannog .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 110, 111
Creek River.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 25, 28, 30
Creek-Stream River.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67, 79, 107
Crimson Bat .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5, 49
Crippled Foot Feud .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 86, 102, 103
Crossline .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53, 54
Culbrea. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 22, 26, 27, 32, 33, 34, 35, 42,
48, 49, 50, 53, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 65,
67, 68, 70, 71, 74, 78, 79, 88, 93, 94, 95, 98, 105
Culbri.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70, 94

D

Dagius Furius.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 124, 125
Dagori Inkarth .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67, 86
Danda Creek.  .  .  .  .  . 7, 10, 11, 28, 30, 31, 32, 74, 88
Danfive Xaron. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 41, 47
Dangerford .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 28, 30,
31, 50, 56, 57, 60, 67, 68, 70, 71, 73, 74, 75, 77, 78,
79, 80, 82, 83, 85, 86, 87, 102, 104, 108, 121, 125
Dangerford Fort.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67, 74, 75, 77, 78
Dangerford Market .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79
Dangerford Village.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75, 77, 78
Dangerford Walls.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78
Dangerous Isle .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 74
Dangmag Spear-Rattler.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
Dangmarham .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30
Dangmar the Red.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Dara.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 87, 112, 114
Dara Happa.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112, 114
Dara Happan(s) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Dara Raven-Tressed.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 87
Dark Friends feud. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 103
Darkot Strong-Thewed.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 95, 96, 97
Darna Longcoat.12, 32, 33, 34, 37, 38, 39, 42, 45, 52
Darningle. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 97
Dart War .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
Darvast Hornos .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 97
Daughters of Mabodh.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
18, 32, 34, 35, 42, 49, 71, 120, 124, 125

Dawn Age .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126
Daylanor the Shieldless.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Daytime Woods .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67
Dead Horse Hill .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75, 78
Death Hollow .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 94, 95, 97
Deathline.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53, 55
death-metal.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 45
Death Rune.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20, 115
Deezola .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 47, 85
Denmother .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
Derik Pol-Joni.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68
Derik Storm-Biter. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 82, 83
Derik Wood-Shaper.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 27, 45
Destoral the Short .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Devina the Bountiful.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65
Dilfaran Chest-Butter .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Dinacol Hard-Rule.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 57, 99, 104
Dinacoli Flats .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 87
Dinacoli Tribe.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 104, 118
Dinosaur Hill .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 67, 119
dirt-eater.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 83
Disputed Lands. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67, 88
Division Hills .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34
Doblian .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 113, 114
Doblian Dogeaters.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 46, 113, 114
Dogbone Hills. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
59, 67, 70, 107, 110, 111, 119, 120, 126, 133
Dolutha.  .  . 3, 7, 11, 13, 14, 22, 30, 31, 40, 49, 50, 55,
56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 63, 66, 68, 73, 74, 75, 77, 78, 79,
80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 101, 102, 103, 104
Dolutha Ring. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 82
Donalf Flats.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
10, 25, 28, 55, 56, 59, 67, 68, 73, 99, 104, 118
Donalf Stream.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68, 104
Doom of the Dolutha. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 74, 88
Dorasar .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 86, 103
Dozalin River .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68
dragon-bone .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37
dragonewts .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53, 68
Dragonewt Wildlands .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68
Dragonkill.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53, 110
Dragon Pass. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 5, 6, 7, 12,
15, 20, 48, 53, 54, 56, 58, 59, 61, 67, 68, 72, 73, 93,
99, 111, 112, 113, 125, 126, 127, 128, 130, 131, 134
Dragonrise. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4
Dragons.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 14
Drenyani the Lucky .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Drondyr Quickblade .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Drum Point.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68, 106
Drumtop.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56, 68
Drutorae .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 16, 55, 56, 58
Dryad Grove.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
Duck Vale .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 54
Dunorl Brandgorsson .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60, 105
Durbadath.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112
Durnvok. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112, 113
Durulz Valley .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16, 55
Duruvan. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 44, 50, 100, 101, 102, 104, 105
Duruvan the Bold. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 104
Duruvan the Fat.  .  .  .  .  . 50, 100, 101, 102, 104, 105
Dwarf Ford .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 107, 108, 115
Dwarf Mine.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 61
Dwarf of Dwarf Mine .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 61
Dwarf Ridge .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88, 91
Dwarf Run.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 35, 131
Dwarf Valley.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56
dwarves .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 35, 36, 53, 61, 77

Index

E

Earthmaker.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
Earth Witch.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34, 129
East Pocket .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 124
Eastside .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25, 27
Eater of Skin .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79
Edrath the Wise .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Eighth. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100
Elder Grandmother .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 42, 52
Elder Races .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 53
Elkoi.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
Elmal .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
49, 64, 73, 74, 75, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 86, 99, 102, 103
Elmalhara .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 82, 83, 86
Elmal Hearth-Guard .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 82, 83, 86
Elmali.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 74, 75, 79, 102
Elmal Temple .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79
Elnoressa the Wily .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 93
Emerald Sword.  .  .  .  .  .  . 3, 11, 13, 14, 17, 36, 39, 40,
44, 49, 50, 86, 87, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 136
Emer Bridge-Water .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33, 45
Empire of the Wyrms Friends. . . . . . . . . 5, 28, 134
Enastara the Red. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 18, 19, 49, 124, 125
Enderos the Spike.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 93
Enent Snow-Whiskers.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Enent Storm-Wise .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58
Enerin Bristle-Beard .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 19, 39, 40, 41, 52
Enerin Ironeye .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
Engizi.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 16, 19, 20, 32, 41, 74, 107, 108
Engizi the Skyriver Titan. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 32, 41, 74
Entalothosium. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
Entarios the Supporter. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32
Eonistaran the Sage .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70
Ereltha Herd-Healer. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65, 66
Erinala Goodale .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26, 44, 45, 46, 52
Erinorth the Rider .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 102, 103
Erinsulva Fine-Hair.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 86, 102
Erlending(s) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Ernalda. .  . 10, 14, 15, 18, 19, 25, 30, 32, 33, 34, 38,
39, 42, 43, 46, 52, 53, 65, 73, 74, 79, 81, 83, 84, 86,
91, 94, 95, 96, 97, 99, 100, 115, 119, 120, 121, 123
Ernaldan(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30
Ernalda Shrine .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39
Ernalda Temple. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79, 123
Ernalda the Earth.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33, 52
Ernalda the Slave .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119, 121
Ernaldinni Wolfkiller. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
Ernaldness Freckles .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
Errol Laugh-Much.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50
Esra the Barley Mother .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34, 52
Esrola.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79, 80, 82
Esrolia .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 10, 41, 54, 105
Estava Golden-Hair.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
Estavar Lightbringer. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Estava the One-Eyed-Woman. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Estavia GoldEyes .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46, 47, 52, 80
Ethilrist .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119
Etyries .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 22, 26, 75, 79, 121, 123
Euglyptus the Fat .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119
Eurmal.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100, 101, 102
EWF.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 67, 70, 110, 111, 134
Eye of the Hurricane .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
12, 33, 39, 40, 41, 43, 52, 95, 96, 97

F

Fall of Dangerford .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56
Faltika Far-Traveled.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 107

143

Farandar Orendalsson.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
12, 30, 32, 34, 35, 37, 39, 40, 50, 52, 98
Faran Flask-Beard .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Far Place. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 68, 70, 99, 100, 103, 118
Far Runners. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 64
Far Shielings .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30
Fat Tribe. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 99
Fazzur Wideread. . . . . . . . . . .72, 91, 105, 110, 120
Fedarkos Many-Breath .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 93
Ferena the Herbalist. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
Ferfal .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7,
10, 50, 55, 56, 57, 73, 74, 75, 78, 80, 81, 86, 88, 99
Ferfal Alliance. .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 10, 55, 56, 57, 73, 75, 99
Ferfal Dolutha. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 55, 78
Ferfalings.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 73, 74, 75, 80, 81, 86
Ferry Feud.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 103
Field Commander .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 120, 121, 124
Findar Longsword .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50, 94, 96, 98, 99
Finger.  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 31, 49, 53, 98, 104, 110, 111, 116
Finger Women .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53, 104, 116
Finovan .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 71
Fintar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6
Fire Altar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 91
Firebull. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33, 108
Fired Thatch Tribute .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 94
Fire Rune.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 74
First Age. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5, 75, 111, 127
First Tarshite Light Foot .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 85
Fistivos the Wise. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Flesh Man .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100
Fordstone. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 28, 30, 31, 49, 56, 68, 88
Forloss Hills. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68, 70
Fortin Vale. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Four Companions .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
Fox .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 63, 68, 70, 74, 86, 93, 97, 98, 104
Fox Hollow .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 63, 68, 70, 93, 97, 98
Fralar .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
Free Sartar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
12, 34, 35, 37, 39, 40, 52, 65, 66, 106, 108, 114
Frekor Deep-Woods. .  .  . 12, 32, 33, 35, 36, 52, 132
Frithan.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
11, 12, 32, 34, 43, 52, 55, 56, 58, 59, 71, 74, 88, 91
Frog Mask.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 40
Fronela.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126, 127
Full Moon .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 48, 52, 128
Full Moon Day.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 128
Furthest.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 27, 46, 86
fyrd.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17

G

Gannara the Lowfire .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Garan the Low Star. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Garanvuli.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16
Garralor Hendriksson.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 60
Garrison Commander.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46, 52, 77, 85, 86
gazzam.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 71
Gbaji.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5
Gejay Hills.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68
Geo.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53, 68, 75, 78, 79, 84
Ghost Gors .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 85
Ghoul King.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 71
Ghoul(s). .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53, 71, 115, 117
giant.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 27, 38, 45, 46, 71, 107, 130
Gifts of Stone. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5, 6
Glass Butterfly. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13
Glasswall.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 108
Glorantha. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 17,
18, 68, 115, 130, 134, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 141

144

Gochbadun .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21
God-King. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53
God Learners .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5
Gods Age.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 71, 72
Gods War. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
god-talker(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 38, 42, 63
Gold-Gotti. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 97
Good Arnal.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 74, 80, 81, 82, 83, 86, 87
Goodfarm .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 68, 71, 72, 120
Goodfarm Vale.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68, 71, 72, 120
Goodhaven .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 12, 50, 53, 66, 68, 70, 91, 95
Good Place .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 111
Good Rain Hill.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38, 67, 68, 71, 107, 108
Goram White-Fang .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 131, 132, 133
Gralor Crow-Nose .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 92
Grandmother Earth.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 64, 114, 127, 130
grantland.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 120
Grave Hill .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16, 28, 30, 31, 38
Gray Sages.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 60
Grazeland Pony Breeders .  .  .  . 7, 13, 15, 53, 55, 78
Grazelands. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 94, 97
Greatblade.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 94, 95, 97
Great Darkness.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 16, 79, 129
Greater Tarsh. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56
Great Fear .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Great Hall .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 24, 25
Great Rain Day.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38
great troll.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26
Great Winter.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 35
Green Ale Feud. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 98
Greenhaft. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11,
12, 31, 49, 50, 62, 63, 64, 66, 68, 88, 91, 94, 95, 106
Green Meadows .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30
Greenstone .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 33, 38
Greenstone Temple .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33, 38
Greeting.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75, 102
Gringle.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 40, 41, 52, 107
Gringle Harvest-King .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 41, 52, 107
Gringle Shield-Wall .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 40
Griselda .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 33, 34, 42, 43, 52
Griselda Gray-Tresses .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 33, 34, 42, 43, 52
Grizzly Peak .  .  . 59, 98, 99, 103, 104, 118, 131, 132
Ground-berry Green-Blush .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 127
Gudny Gold-Lamb.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80, 81, 82, 83, 86, 87
Gustand Harvarsson .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Gwandor .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 94
Gyffun Cheapshoes .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 63
Gyffun Druggarson .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58

H

Hahlgrim.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53, 103, 104
Hahlgrim Wood-Nose.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103, 104
half-carls .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 41
Hallarax.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 73, 79, 83, 84, 86, 97
Hallarax the Last Orlanthi. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 84, 86
Hall of the Black Oak Throne. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 120, 123
Haloricing .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100, 101, 102
Harana Ilor .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12
Haren Snow-Drift. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 91
Harlanth the Bald.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 45
Harmast Barefoot.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105
Harmony Rune.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 18
Harung Thongtop. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
Harvar Ironfist .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14, 73, 100, 104, 118
Hastur Tarsh-Born.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 82, 83
Hauberk Jon .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Haunted Lands.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14
Haunted Ruins .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70, 86

INDEX

Headman.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 52
Healing Broth Cauldron .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13
Heartland. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70, 114
Hecalonti.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46
Hedbrast .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 48
Helamakt.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
Heler. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 28, 32, 35,
36, 37, 38, 43, 68, 71, 72, 80, 81, 87, 107, 108, 110
Helering.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38
Heljar .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57
Helkan the Sleepy.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100
Helkos .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60, 63, 119, 124, 131, 132, 133
Helkos Brothers .  .  .  .  .  . 60, 119, 124, 131, 132, 133
Hell.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50, 60, 93, 98
Hendath the Lame .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 87
Hendlakar the Squinter.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 98
Hendriki .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 105
Hendrikings .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105
Heort .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 5, 7, 10, 11,
16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 25, 28, 30, 31, 32, 40, 46, 47,
53, 54, 57, 59, 70, 73, 106, 107, 111, 119, 132, 136
Heort Creek. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
10, 11, 21, 25, 28, 30, 31, 32, 40, 47, 57, 70, 119, 132
Heort Creek Massacre.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57
Heortland .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 10, 16, 53, 54, 59, 73, 106, 107
Heortlings .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 25, 46, 111
Herongreen.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 68, 70, 108, 117, 118, 123
heroquester .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 35
heroquesting.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 95
Hero Wars.4, 5, 6, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19, 33, 65, 74, 130
High Jumps.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 99
High King .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 105
High Priest. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46, 52, 85, 86
Highstead. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Hill of Orlanth Victorious. .  .  .  . 60, 70, 93, 98, 105
Hinalda the Enduring .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39
Hindal Moor-Leaper .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Hingot Twice-Outlawed .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Hiord .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58
Hiord the Sharp .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58
Hofstaring .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50, 60, 91, 93, 97, 98
Hofstaring Treeleaper .  .  .  .  .  . 50, 60, 91, 93, 97, 98
Holay .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Holy Country .  .  .  . 53, 60, 75, 79, 87, 113, 125, 132
Holy Day(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38, 63, 72
Hon-eel .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 98, 100, 103, 115
Horse Rest.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 68, 93, 97, 98
housecarl(s).  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 11, 17, 21, 22, 36, 38, 80, 98
household .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 11, 16,
18, 21, 24, 25, 27, 45, 56, 57, 58, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64,
75, 78, 86, 87, 94, 95, 98, 120, 121, 123, 132, 134
Household of Death.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 131
House of Peace .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70, 83, 91
House of Sartar.  .  .  . 15, 64, 105, 129, 131, 132, 133
Houses-of-the-Moon.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79
Hsunchen. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126, 128
Humakt .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
15, 19, 44, 65, 70, 72, 73, 74, 94, 95, 97, 99, 116
Humakti. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72, 73, 95, 97
Hunting Spirits.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
Hykim .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126, 129
Hykimi.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126

I

Ilgan Raven-Flag. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Illaro.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48, 56, 57, 83, 84, 85, 86, 99, 103
Illaro Blacktooth.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Illaro Broken-Back.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 83, 85, 86

Illumination .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
Imperial Loyalists.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 120, 124, 125
Imperial Way Station.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75, 78
Indigo Mountains. .  .  .  .  . 57, 67, 68, 70, 71, 99, 118
Inganna Koscheisdottir.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 84, 85, 86
Inhuman King. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68
Inhuman Occupation. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 53
Inner Ring.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32, 33, 82
Innkeeper. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45, 46, 52
Insterid the Bent.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 40
Invarth Red-Cloak.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 41
Irnara Cat-Witch .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65
iron.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
13, 17, 22, 33, 35, 44, 45, 57, 61, 98, 99, 100, 127
Ironfists.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100, 102
Irripi Ontor.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 124, 125
Isbarnessa Boarscar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 95, 96, 97
Isle Dangerous .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
21, 57, 59, 67, 74, 75, 77, 78, 79, 86, 103
Isolationists.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65, 66, 67
Isolting.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 92
Issaries.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
15, 48, 65, 74, 79, 94, 95, 96, 97, 99, 100, 121
Issaries Goldentongue.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
Itavanu.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
Ivar.  .  .  .  . 5, 6, 14, 15, 22, 24, 26, 32, 35, 37, 38, 43,
45, 48, 50, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 71,
73, 74, 75, 77, 78, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88,
91, 93, 103, 108, 110, 115, 124, 131, 132, 133, 134
Ivar Clubfoot.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 81, 86, 87, 103
Ivar Quickstep. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14, 22, 62, 63, 65,
68, 73, 75, 77, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 91, 103
Ivartha the Skinner. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
15, 50, 59, 60, 61, 62, 66, 81, 110, 133

J

Jafoksa Smoke-Eyes.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Jaldon Goldentooth.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68
Janara the Swarthy.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 61, 62, 64, 66
Janerra the Learned.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Jaranil the Tall.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Jaranil the Thunder .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 22, 33, 36, 39, 52
Jarkorl Snow-Whiskers.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32, 39, 40, 41, 52
Jarolar.11, 31, 68, 70, 75, 77, 78, 88, 93, 94, 106, 131
Jarolar Keep.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 31, 68, 88, 93, 94
Jarolar Longstride. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 131
Jarolar Saronilsson.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75
Jarolar Trail.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 88
Jarol River .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30
Jarolvale.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 55, 58, 111
Jarosar .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 55, 59, 74, 83, 85, 86, 131
Jarosar Hothead .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Jarosarings.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 74, 83, 85, 86
Jarosar Longarrow .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 131
Jarrigana the Unmatched .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
Jarstak Bristle-Beard .  .  .  . 36, 37, 38, 43, 50, 52, 98
Jarstak the Lame.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58
Javern Spithorn.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105
Jerasella Never-Doubt.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 82, 84, 86
Jerra .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13
Jillaro .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
Jogar Sog.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 130, 131, 133
Joh Mith. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 66
Jomes Dash.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 124
Jomesland .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67, 68, 70, 75, 88, 119
Jomes ‘Wulf ’ Hostralos.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 124, 125
Jonriking.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31

Jonstown .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 22, 26, 27, 31, 32, 45, 48, 49, 54, 58,
59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 68, 70, 71, 72, 75, 77, 79,
80, 83, 85, 86, 88, 91, 92, 93, 94, 97, 98, 99, 104,
105, 106, 108, 114, 115, 119, 120, 121, 124, 125, 132
Jonstown Confederation.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 10, 11, 49, 58,
59, 60, 61, 86, 99, 104, 115, 119, 120, 124, 125, 132
Jonstown Library .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 63, 70
Jonstown Trail. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Jordarn the Clash.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50, 105
Jost Bronze-Side.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 63, 88, 91, 106
Jostharlos Many-Breath.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30
Jotoring .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 94
juror.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 22

K

Kagrad Blacktooth .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 91
Kalf.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34, 65, 66
Kalf Blinked-Twice. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65
Kalf Triplet-Born .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34
Kallai .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60, 62, 65, 66, 105
Kallai Hairy-Breeks .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 62, 65, 66
Kallai Rockbuster.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60, 105
Kallesra Sees-Tomorrow.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100, 101, 102
Kallyr Starbrow. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5, 12, 39, 42, 60, 72,
85, 93, 95, 100, 105, 106, 108, 114, 115, 131, 132
Kangharl .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 18, 19, 20, 33,
34, 35, 36, 37, 39, 43, 44, 45, 50, 52, 53, 59, 102, 104
Kangharl Black-Brow. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 18,
19, 20, 33, 34, 35, 37, 39, 43, 44, 45, 50, 52, 102, 104
Kangharl Moon-Hater.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Karantuel.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 15
Karganar Blood-Eye. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16, 28, 30, 45, 48
karmanoi.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 113
Karos Crow-Shadow .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65
Kastoks. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Kastokus style.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Kathelranda. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50, 59, 60, 61, 119
Keep of Sarotar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68
Kenala Long-Limbed.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 82, 83
Kenstran Sword-Tongue .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34, 45
Kenstran Water-Flyer. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 40
Kenstrata.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112
Kerenelli Indigo-Warrior. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11, 28
Kerenelling.11, 15, 19, 28, 35, 37, 38, 41, 42, 43, 52
Kernalda Other-Ways .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
12, 36, 37, 38, 39, 44, 52, 98, 101
Kero Fin.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65, 82
Kerofinela .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15
Kethaela.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53
Ketil Heavy-Wyr. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 92
Kevessa Red-Lip.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Kheldon.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60, 105, 106, 114
Kheldon Ring .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
Killard Vale .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57
Killing Pine .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 133
King of Above.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
King of Below .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
King of Dragon Pass. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20, 58
King of the Ghouls.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53, 115
King Ranulf.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34, 93
kinstrife.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 14, 73, 82, 83, 86
Kitori .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 53, 131
Kodigvari.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 99, 105
Kolat.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 94, 99, 127
Kolating.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 127
Korang the Slayer.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67
Kordrosi.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 85, 86

Index

Korgatsu Tradition.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 128
Korli Copper-Kettle.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 91
Korlinalda the Holy .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34
Korlmaran the Bold.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 91
Korlmhyor the Swift. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 44, 50, 102
Korlofin Longeye .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78
Koroldos Peak-Flyer. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 93
Korolfin Longeye .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75, 77, 82, 83, 84, 86
Kortyrling .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58, 93, 94, 95
Koschei Boltorsson. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 85
Koschei Braggart .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 103
Koschei Sure-handed.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 98
Koschei the Laggard. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58
Kostajor Wolf-Champion .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
60, 64, 114, 119, 124, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133
Kostardosham.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Kralorelans .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126
Krikans. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 67
Krogar Shield-Breaker.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Kulbrast Offirson .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 93, 95, 96, 97, 99
Kulestan the Red. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 98
Kulfin the Unready. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Kulkand Blackhands .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 86
Kullina the Fat. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 28, 32, 33, 34, 39, 52
Kynnelfing Alliance .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 73, 99

L

Lady of the Wilds.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 64
Laguala Red-Snout.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 132
Lake Aroka .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 99
Lant Ulfar .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68, 71
Larnste.  .  .  .  .  .  . 56, 68, 71, 72, 92, 98, 106, 108, 118
Larnste Hills .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68, 92
Lasadag Lions.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Last Breeze. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 91
Last Rebel King. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105
Last Royal Betrayal. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 61
lawspeaker.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 22, 91
Legate.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 111, 113, 114, 134
Leika Cow-Wise.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 95
Leika Herd-Rich.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Leika Wyrd-Weaver.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Leikorl the Shadow. .  .  . 61, 62, 63, 64, 66, 132, 133
Lhankor Mhy .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 63, 64, 100
Lhankpentos the Blind. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 39, 40, 41, 52
Life Keepers. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126
Life Rune.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17, 18, 19
Lightbringers. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70, 95, 126
Lightning Band.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13
Lightning Lodge.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 32, 38
Lismelder.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 54
Livestock Green .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26, 79
Lizardwood.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70, 72, 118, 119
Lizardwood Flats .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70
Lizardwood Wilds .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70, 118
Lokamayadon.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5
Long Marsh.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Long Winter .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126, 129
Loom House .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25, 27, 43
Lorel the Hunter.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129, 130
Lorel the Hunter Star.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129, 130
Loricon Glad-Mood. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100
Lorthing. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7,
10, 15, 31, 55, 65, 67, 68, 70, 74, 88, 91, 94, 106, 133
Lorthing Gold Tribute.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 94
Lorthing River. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67, 70, 74, 88
Lorthing Vale .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 15, 31, 55, 65, 94, 106
Loyal Thanes.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 74, 80, 81, 82, 83, 86

145

Lunar .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
4, 5, 6, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 22, 25, 27, 35, 38, 39,
40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 52, 55, 59,
60, 62, 64, 65, 68, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 77, 78, 79,
80, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 93, 94, 95, 98, 99, 100,
102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 110, 111, 112,
113, 114, 119, 120, 121, 124, 125, 131, 133, 134
Lunar Army. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 60, 93, 107, 134
Lunar Empire .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 5, 6, 14, 15, 39, 42,
46, 47, 48, 52, 55, 59, 64, 65, 73, 74, 75, 83, 85, 86,
98, 99, 102, 103, 105, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 119
Lunar Garrison.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46, 47, 85
Lunar Grantland.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11
Lunar Heartland Corps.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Lunar Hell.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50, 93, 98
Lunar Mission.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46, 52, 85
Lunar Occupation .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 35, 79
Lunar Way.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12
Lysang .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68, 92

Movement Rune.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16, 19, 20
Mudhens .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 107

M

Odayla.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 35, 36, 52, 94, 95, 99, 104, 121
ogres.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14, 15, 16, 22, 63, 80
Old Bar. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79
Old God.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12
Old Marten .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 74, 78
Old Marten’s Circle. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78
Old Roads .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25
Old Tarsh.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 98, 100
Old Wulf .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119
Old Wyrm’s Top .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70
Olend the Slim .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
One Day. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72
Onelisin Cat-Witch .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129, 131
Only Old One.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53
Ontorkol the Priest. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80
Oraya.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Orgorvale Summer. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 16
Orgorvaltes .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16, 28, 30, 31
Orkarl. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43, 44, 48, 49, 50, 52, 86, 103
Orkarl Belly-Laugh .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 86, 103
Orkarl Bull-Rider.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Orkarl Iron-Beard .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43, 44, 49, 52
Orkassi Marrowbone.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 93
Orlanth. .  . 4, 5, 7, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
20, 22, 24, 25, 26, 27, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38,
39, 40, 41, 44, 45, 52, 53, 56, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63,
64, 65, 66, 67, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 79, 80, 81, 83, 84,
85, 86, 87, 91, 92, 93, 94, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101,
104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 111, 115, 116, 117, 119,
120, 121, 123, 125, 126, 127, 130, 131, 132, 134
Orlanth Adventurous. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 66
Orlanth and Aroka heroquest. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11
Orlanth Destor .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 71
Orlanthi.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 5, 10, 15, 17, 20, 22,
26, 27, 38, 45, 58, 61, 63, 64, 70, 72, 73, 74, 80, 81,
83, 84, 86, 87, 91, 92, 98, 105, 107, 108, 111, 115,
116, 117, 120, 123, 126, 127, 130, 131, 132, 134
Orlanthi Law.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 63
Orlanth Rex. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33, 91
Orlanth Rex Statues.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 91
Orlanth Shrine .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39
Orlanth Temple. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79, 123
Orlanth the Chieftain. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Orlanth Thunderous .  .  .  .  .  . 24, 65, 66, 67, 73, 104
Orlarn Friend-of-Heroes. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34
Orldag .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 102
Orldarmon .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Orldarmon Hide-Of-Ox .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Orlgandus the White.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34

Maboder .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5, 10, 12,
15, 18, 28, 36, 37, 40, 49, 50, 58, 59, 60, 61, 65, 70,
71, 73, 110, 119, 120, 123, 124, 125, 130, 131, 132
Mabodh.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
18, 32, 34, 35, 42, 49, 57, 60, 71, 119, 120, 124, 125
Mabodh May-Not-Be-Moved. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57, 119
Maggara Goodhaven-Born.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53
Maker of Bad Growth .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79
Maklan the Fat and Good.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 48
Malan Hardbargain .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 95, 96, 97
Malani .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 10, 11,
54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 66, 67, 68, 72, 75, 78, 79, 92
Maniski the Lean .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 98
Many-Breath.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 16, 30, 48, 93
Many Suns.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 102
Maran. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67
Mara the Haughty. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123
Markaldor Far-Walker.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 84
Martara .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 87
Mastakos the Charioteer.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 97
Mastery Rune .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19
mead-hall. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 22, 24
Melifas.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37
Meteor Spear.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 38
Middle Air.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 128
Middle World.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
Mikyh. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
militia.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16, 17, 21, 71, 73, 77, 114, 126, 134
Minanco Sog.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 133
Minarika the Lark. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Minaryth Purple. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105
Miresthranna .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119
Mirinite Swords .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Moaning Valley. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70, 110, 111
Monrogh Lantern.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 102
Moon Bar. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79
Moon Dogs.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43, 110, 111, 113
Moon Rune.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25
Moon Winds. . 12, 15, 39, 40, 41, 46, 47, 52, 53, 74
moot.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 22, 25, 26, 32, 91, 103
Mooting Stage.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 22, 26
Morganeth.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80, 81, 82, 83, 86, 87
Morgan Sword-Tongue.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43
Mother of Mammals .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
Motion Rune.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Mountain Giant .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46

146

N

Narden Black-Mood .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126
Narga.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15
Nevalessa First-Daughter .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 92
Neva Many-Cow. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 91
New Pavis .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70, 103
New Road .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25
New Wind.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 74, 75, 79, 81, 83, 84, 85, 86
Nisk Wood-Turner. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Nontraya the Taker. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 115
North March.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 10, 54, 73
Nymie Valley. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 47
nymph(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30
Nysalor. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 111, 127

O

INDEX

Orlkarnth Blackbeard .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 61
Orlmakt.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50, 58, 87, 88
Orlmakt Nine-Winds. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50, 87
Orlmakt Stout-Hearted.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58
Orlmarl the Charioteer .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 96, 97, 98
Orlmarth.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12
Orlniskis Twist-Foot .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 86, 102, 103
Orlrik Greatblade.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 95
Ormasal Tooth-Wind .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Ormthane Vale.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38, 70
Orngerin Thundercape .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
63,
91,
105,
106,
107,
108,
114
Orshanti. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53, 59
Orstajor Black-Paws. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 58
Orstalor .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5, 6, 12,
19, 20, 40, 43, 48, 95, 96, 105, 107, 108, 111, 114
Orstalor Ironplow. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 95, 96
Orstalor Spearlord .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
5, 6, 12, 19, 20, 40, 43, 48, 105, 107, 108, 111, 114
Orsta Trades-With-Trolls .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33, 39, 41
Ortossi Ketilsson .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 36, 37, 38, 52, 62, 98
Orvane Amber-Eyed .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 36
Oslir .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
Osmann.  .  . 11, 34, 35, 37, 39, 41, 52, 55, 56, 81, 86
Osmanning(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34
Ostling.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 63, 64, 66, 129, 131, 132
Ostling Four-wolf.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 129, 131
Ostling Spotted-Fur.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 63, 64, 66
Other Side.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 130, 133
Otherworld .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105
Own Two Feet. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 120, 124
Oxlodge.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Ox-Wagon Fight.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 133

P

Palangio the Iron Vrok. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Pandarious. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 125
Pavis.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5, 6,
21, 26, 43, 48, 65, 66, 70, 86, 98, 103, 110, 121, 123
Pavis Road.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 70, 110, 121
Pelanda. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112, 113
Pelandan .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112
Peloria .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 27, 41, 112
Pelorian .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 27, 41
peltast(s) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46, 60
Pent. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Petrad Redgold.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 104
Pharandros .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100, 101, 123
Pharandros White-Beard .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 123
Phargentes.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38, 46, 47, 52, 86
Phargentes Grinning-Scar. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38, 46, 47, 52
Pharzeela.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 123
Plains of Prax .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 111
Polaris. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 124
Pol-Joni .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 66, 68, 111
Pralori .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126
Prax .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 67, 68, 70, 111
Prince of Sartar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106, 132
Provincial Army.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 120, 124
Provincial Church .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 46, 60, 85
Provincial Government.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78, 124
Puppeteer Troupe.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26, 48, 77, 92

Q

Quivin Hills. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 91
Quivini. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 56, 68, 70
Quivin Mountains . . 10, 28, 54, 57, 68, 71, 94, 106

R

Rain Blossom .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67, 104
Rainmaker.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43
Ralios.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 127
Randel the Straight. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100
Rangard Blacktooth.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Rangard Pride-of-the-Mead-Bench. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 98
Ranosing .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100, 102
Ranulf Shield-Wall.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Ranulf Turn-Tail.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 34, 50, 68, 93, 97
Rascius of Aggar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 124
Rastnik the Red. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Rastoron. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
Rathori.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126
Rattle-Born.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 18, 36
Raus of Rone.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119
Raven the Trickster .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
Redalda .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 74, 82, 99
Redaldings. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 55, 56, 74
Red Bird. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70
Red Cow .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,
23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37,
38, 39, 40, 41, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 52, 53,
56, 57, 58, 59, 61, 62, 63, 65, 66, 67, 70, 73, 74, 75,
77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 85, 86, 87, 88, 93, 94, 95,
97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 107, 108,
110, 111, 119, 121, 123, 125, 126, 132, 133, 136
Red Cow Ferry.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21
Red Cow Fort.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
10, 11, 16, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 31, 38, 39,
45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 56, 57, 70, 79, 80, 85, 119, 121
Red Cow Road .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78
red cows.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
7, 10, 13, 15, 16, 19, 21, 22, 30, 32, 39, 48, 67, 100
Red Cow Trail.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 31
Red Cow Tribute. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 49, 50, 94, 98
Red Emperor. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 59
Red God. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 15, 31, 46, 47, 48, 114
Red Goddess.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 15, 31, 46, 47, 48, 114
Red Inn .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26
Redlands .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Red Moon. 4, 5, 15, 35, 98, 100, 101, 103, 105, 128
redsmiths.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 22
Renvardstead. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32
Resettlement.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 50, 53, 54, 68
Resettlement of Eoric’s Stead .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50
Righteous Wind.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 66, 95, 105, 118
Righteous Wind Rebellion .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105
Rigsdal.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
Rivals.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 18, 19, 20, 35
River of Cradles .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119
Riverside Guerrilla.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 107
Rockwood Mountains.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 45
Rosserian the Quick. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 86
Rostakus Twice-Outlawed. .  . 50, 87, 100, 101, 102
Rostala Sun-willow. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Rostarlor Well-Advised.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Royal House .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 105, 131, 132
Royal House of Sartar .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 105, 132
Runegate .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34, 49

S

Sable Riders.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 111
Sacred Time. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 22, 60, 63, 88, 94
Saird.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 73

Sakkar. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Salinarg .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 59
Salissa Three-Husbands. . . . . 12, 33, 34, 42, 50, 52
Sambari .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33
Sanchal Crooked-Teeth.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56
Sanchali.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 10, 53, 55, 56, 57, 75, 92
Sanchali tribute. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 92
Sardal Dawn-Raid .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11
Sardalham .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 47
Sardaling(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 41
Saronil .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58, 59, 68, 75
Saronil Gustandson .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58
Saroosa Dark-Wyrd.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34
Sarostip Breaker-Of-Men .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 31
Sarostiping. .  .  . 11, 30, 33, 34, 36, 39, 40, 43, 46, 52
Sarostipstead.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Sartar .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 12,
13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 20, 21, 27, 28, 32, 34, 35, 37, 39,
40, 42, 44, 46, 49, 50, 52, 53, 54, 58, 59, 60, 64, 65,
66, 67, 68, 70, 71, 72, 74, 75, 77, 78, 80, 82, 83, 85,
86, 91, 92, 94, 97, 98, 99, 100, 102, 103, 105, 106,
108, 110, 111, 113, 114, 115, 116, 118, 119, 120,
121, 124, 126, 127, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134
Sartar Free Army .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72
Sartar High Council.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105, 106, 108
Sartarite(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46, 77, 82, 116, 121, 124, 130
Sasaring.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100
Sazdorf.  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 49, 67, 68, 70, 86, 103, 110, 111
Second Age .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5, 134
Secret Moon .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
Serdrodosa the Earth Witch.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34
Serias .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16
Seshnegi.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126
Seven Blows of Anger .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 102
Seven Bright Feathers .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16
Sevened .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 47, 48, 85
Seven Mothers .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
4, 5, 12, 15, 20, 26, 27, 40, 41, 46, 47, 48, 53, 73, 74,
75, 79, 81, 84, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 119, 121, 123
Seven Mothers Temple. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Sevenoaks .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 41
Seven Sad Blows.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 86
Seven Tributes. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 50, 93, 94, 95, 98
Shadow Bow .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 35
Shadow of Black Glass.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
Shiprise .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
Shroud Day.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38
Siganti. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63, 66, 71
Sihala Sweet-Laugh .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 63, 64, 132
Silent Wind.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
Silk-Breeches feud .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53, 105
Silkinister Curly-Beard .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 87
Sivin Feat.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
Six Sisters.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34, 70, 111
Six Stones. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
skirmishers .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17, 21, 107, 134
Sky God.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105
Skyriver Titan.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 16, 32, 41, 67, 74
Sky Rune .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
Sky World .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 105, 106
Slavewall .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 82
Smilax Gloranthus .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 91
Snakepipe Hollow. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 66, 108, 115
Southern Theyalan. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 55, 73, 99
South Gate.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78, 79
Spider Woman .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129
Spirit World. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129, 130
Split Waters.  .  .  . 28, 36, 37, 40, 49, 50, 61, 110, 125
Spoken Word. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78

Index

Stagland.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 11, 12, 15,
28, 31, 32, 35, 38, 70, 71, 110, 111, 119, 126, 132
Stagland Sour .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Standing Stones. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Star Ash tree .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13
Star Captain(s) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13
Starkor Quick-Blade. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
steadfasts .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38, 120, 124
Stealing of the Giant’s Cows.15, 16, 21, 33, 38, 39, 43
stenogs.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67
stickpickers .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 40, 73, 133
Still Lake .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 107, 110, 111
Stinking Forest .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 66, 98
Stonegate .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 26, 27, 28,
31, 57, 60, 70, 75, 79, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124
Stone Gate.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 120, 121
Stonegate Fort.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119, 120, 121, 122
Stonewater.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98
Storm Age .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16, 71, 104, 118
Stormbrow. . 5, 6, 12, 40, 48, 85, 107, 108, 110, 114
Storm Bulls .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65
Storm Rams. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 108, 110
Storm Rune.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25
Storm Tribe.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10
Storm Voice.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33, 39, 67, 106
Stralos. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 71
Strange Sisters.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Streamvale.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 55
Strong-arm the bouncer .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78
Strong Peace .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60
Summer Queen rites .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 87
Summons of Evil. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 74
Sun County.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Sunflower Charge.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 99
Sunset Leap.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 97
Sunshine Inn.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68, 70, 91
Sureela Far-Traveled. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48, 52, 62
Swan Vale. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67
Swena the Upright .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43
Swendar Battle-Brother.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65
Sword and Helm.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 61, 105
Sword Hill .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 97
Sword Rebels.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 107, 111
Sworn Knives .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 77, 78, 82, 84
Sylila.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48, 52, 85, 86

T

Table Races .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 92
Talastaring.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20
Talor the Laughing Warrior .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 127
Tamara Little-Mouse .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100
Tarena the Blue Woman .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43
Taren Sword-Tongue .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 91
Tarkal Gyffunson .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58, 61
Tarkalor.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 59, 131
Tarkalus Bigger-Boat .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 39, 40, 41, 52
Tarsh. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 14, 46,
47, 49, 52, 55, 56, 57, 59, 71, 73, 75, 80, 81, 82, 83,
85, 86, 87, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 115, 118, 131
Tarsh Exiles.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Tarshite Civil War. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56, 118
Tarshite Loyalists .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100, 101, 102
Tarshite(s) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 98
Tarsh Tax.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 99
Tarvik the Swarthy.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Tatoukal Blackbeard. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 124, 125
Tax Collector. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48
Teller of Lies .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79, 80, 83, 102

147

Telmor.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
3, 4, 5, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21, 24, 26, 27,
28, 32, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 42, 48, 49, 50, 53, 54,
56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 70,
71, 73, 77, 84, 85, 87, 88, 91, 93, 94, 95, 98, 103,
104, 110, 111, 112, 114, 115, 119, 120, 121, 123,
124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133
Telmori. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
3, 4, 5, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21, 24, 26, 27,
28, 32, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 42, 48, 49, 50, 53, 54,
56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 70,
71, 73, 77, 84, 85, 87, 88, 91, 93, 94, 95, 98, 103,
104, 110, 111, 112, 114, 115, 119, 120, 121, 123,
124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133
Telmori Long Barrows.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 127
Telmori Royal Guard.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126, 129, 132, 133
Telmor Spirit Society.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 64, 129, 131, 132
Temertain .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 14, 60, 64, 95, 111, 131, 132
Temertain Longnose .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 95
Templehill.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32
Temple Hill.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 32
Terasarin .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 59, 70, 104, 118, 131, 132
Tergavi.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126, 127, 129, 130
Thanelda Copper-Tongue.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 64, 65
thanes. 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 21, 22, 31, 35, 36, 37, 39,
43, 46, 47, 49, 50, 61, 73, 75, 77, 82, 83, 84, 93, 94,
98, 99, 101, 103, 104, 105, 107, 110, 113, 116, 119
Theater. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26
The Bull.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112
The Hunter.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112
The Lion .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112
The Red Cows. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13
The Shaman .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112
Third Age. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5, 10, 54
This World. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 93
thrall(s) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80, 116, 119, 120, 125
Three Widows Feud.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 87, 104
Thunder Brother(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Thunder Brother’s Barracks .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 24, 25
Thunder Day. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38, 73
Thunder Hills.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 55
Thunderous Comb.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13
Toena.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 26, 28
Toena Fort.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
Toltar Gors-Born .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65, 66
Torath Silk-Breeches .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 50, 104
Torkani.11, 12, 43, 49, 56, 57, 58, 59, 63, 66, 67, 68,
70, 72, 73, 102, 103, 107, 110, 115, 118, 119, 121
Torkan River.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30
Torkan Vale.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 71
Tormakting.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11,
14, 18, 20, 28, 32, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39, 40, 43, 45, 52
Tormakt Stout-Hearted.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 48
Tormal Stand-Beside .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 102
Tovtaros.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Trade Ring.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 63
Treasure Green.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26, 79, 123
triaty.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 55, 73, 74, 119
Trickster. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 64, 66, 129
trolls.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 53, 57, 67, 68, 70, 86, 103, 110
Truth Rune .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19
tula.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 31, 32, 67
Tusk Riders.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 66, 98
Twin Brothers.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 55, 56, 57, 74, 84, 86
Twisted Morganeth .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80, 81, 82, 86, 87
Two Fisted Inn .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68, 71, 75, 79
Two-Penny .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 97
Two-Pine.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3, 10, 11, 13, 28, 30, 31, 36, 39,
49, 50, 58, 59, 68, 71, 88, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 133
Two-Pine Ridge . . 10, 28, 30, 31, 58, 71, 93, 94, 98

148

Two Ridge Top .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 71
Ty Kora Tek.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79

U

Ulanin. 15, 16, 17, 20, 21, 24, 25, 33, 38, 39, 49, 98
Ulanin Iron-Side. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 98
Ulanin Shrine .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39
Ulanin the Rider. . 15, 16, 17, 20, 21, 24, 25, 33, 38
Umath .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14, 37
Umbroli .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13
undead.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 54, 55, 71
Underwillow.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 12, 32, 34, 37, 42,
43, 46, 52, 53, 55, 56, 58, 59, 66, 68, 72, 88, 92, 93
Underworld. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79
Unfettered One.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72, 92
Unhappy King Derik .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 63
Unlife Rune.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 115
Unstana Peace Weaver.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Upland Marsh.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 54, 55
Uralda. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13, 32, 34, 43, 52, 95
Uraldahof. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32
Urika the Beautiful. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Urn Field.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 27, 79, 123
Urossi Key-Keeper.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 82
Urox.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 65, 66, 94
Uroxi. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Ustarna Try-Much .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 42, 43, 45, 52, 101

V

Valan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94, 97
Valenstor Moor-Leaper.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 50
Valind. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 94
Varanvil Many-Horses.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 87
Vargast Redhand. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13
Varsmar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 54, 55
Vasi Tight-Fist. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79
Vasrenkarl Many-Brothers .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34
Vastyr Bloody-Shirt.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 61, 62, 63, 64, 66
Venharl. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
5, 6, 12, 40, 48, 85, 88, 103, 107, 108, 110, 111, 114
Venharla Plow-Priestess .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Venharl Stormbrow.5, 6, 12, 40, 48, 85, 107, 108, 114
Venharl Tangle-Hair .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103
Venharl Venharlson.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 108
Verge. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Verlain Never-Doubt.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33, 65, 66, 67
vexilla.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 113, 114
Vinga . . 15, 19, 61, 62, 74, 85, 94, 99, 105, 106, 125
Vingan.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105
Vingkot .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 15, 16, 61, 68, 79, 99, 105, 118
Vingkotling Age .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 15
Vingkotling Hero.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16
Vingkotling(s). .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 79, 99
ViSarta.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112
Vogarth Hearth-Guard .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 41
Voranga Many-Sorrows. .  .  .  .  .  . 38, 42, 43, 52, 108
Vorena the Rattle .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 133
Voria. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65
Voriof.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 35, 41, 52

W

Waha. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Wandle.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 31, 32, 107
Wandle Bog.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 32
warband.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16, 27, 50, 59, 60, 61,
91, 98, 103, 105, 106, 107, 110, 111, 119, 125, 127
Warband Leader.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88, 91, 92, 93, 102
War Clan .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88, 93, 94, 95, 96, 110
Warmth Stealer.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80

INDEX

War of the One-Eyed Woman. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Watchman.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 83
Watchman’s Horn.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 83
Water Rune .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 19, 38
Waterstone. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32
Way Station.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75, 78
Wealthy Tribe .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 99
weapontake.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 22
werewolves .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
4, 10, 12, 15, 17, 32, 45, 56, 58, 68, 71, 95, 128, 130
wergild.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33, 41, 45, 86
White Crow Inn .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 71, 88
White Foal War. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 86
Whitefringe the stableman .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78
White Owl.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 133
White Shirt Day .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 102
White Snout .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 133
Whitewall .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 16, 105, 106
Willandring the Giant .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 44, 45, 52
Willem the Knowing .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 15, 22, 39, 49
Wilmskirk .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70, 97
Wind Lord.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 36, 39, 66, 91, 97, 103
Wind-Slicer.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37
Windstop.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4
Wintertop .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100
wolf brother. .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 60, 124, 127, 130, 131, 133
Wolf Hills. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 94, 124, 126, 129, 132
Wolf Hunt .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5, 49, 50, 60, 62, 64,
65, 98, 102, 103, 114, 119, 120, 121, 124, 130, 133
wolfmen. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
5, 11, 12, 15, 22, 27, 37, 38, 39, 40, 49, 56, 57, 58,
63, 65, 66, 70, 85, 93, 94, 98, 110, 114, 115, 119, 121
Wolf Pelt Tribute. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 94
Wolf Ridges.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56, 58, 60, 63, 71, 111, 130
Wolfskinners.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
12, 35, 36, 37, 38, 43, 52, 57, 61, 62, 63, 64, 66, 133
Wolf Stand.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65, 71, 110, 133
Wolf Tax. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Wolf Tribute .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 98
Woods of the Dead.3, 58, 71, 97, 115, 116, 117, 118
Wulf Fort.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70, 120
Wulfsland.3, 7, 15, 20, 30, 31, 34, 35, 38, 39, 41, 70,
71, 99, 119, 120, 121, 123, 124, 125, 130, 132, 133
Wulfslanders.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 120, 121, 132
wyter. .  .  .  . 10, 13, 16, 28, 30, 59, 73, 78, 95, 99, 110

X

Xerena .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103

Y

Yanafal Tarnils. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48, 82, 85, 102, 113, 114
Yarandros the Charger. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 56
Years in Hiding.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26, 57, 127
Yeerenis .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38
Yelm .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 92, 102, 103
Yelmalio.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 102, 103
Yelmalion. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 102
Yelm Creek .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 92
Yendessa Other-Ways .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 82, 83
Yerestaring. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100
Yerestia. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 44, 50, 102, 106
Yerestia Cat-Witch.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 44, 50, 102
Yinkin. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15, 17, 20, 74, 94, 99, 136
Yinkin Rune .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17, 20
Yrsa Herd-Rich.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88

Z

Zaleena Silver-Tongue.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80, 81, 84, 86
Zorak Zoran .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70

JOIN THE HEROES
OF THE RED COW
In Sartar, the Red Cow clan are surrounded by their
enemies and occupied by the Lunar Empire. To their
south the Culbrea tribe cast greedy eyes on the clan’s cows,
to the north the treacherous Dinacoli seek vengeance for
old wounds, and to the east the monstrous Telmori, a
tribe of werewolves listen to a new leader, Jogar Sog, who
calls on the wolfmen to slaughter their neighbors. The
winds that bring the Hero Wars are blowing, can your
heroes see your clan through The Coming Storm?
The Coming Storm is the guide to the Glorantha setting
of the Red Cow clan in Sartar. With over 60 detailed and

illustrated NPCs, write-ups of all major locations, maps,
history of the Cinsina, and details of the neighbouring
Dolutha, Two Pine, and Emerald Sword clans. Also
covered are the Telmori werewolves, Wulfsland settlers,
local rebel leaders and the ghouls of the Woods of the
Dead. This book provides everything you need to run a
classic clan-based Sartarite campaign.
The Coming Storm forms the setting for the forthcoming
The Eleven Lights an epic campaign taking the Red
Cow through the opening days of the Hero Wars from
1618-1625.

CHA4030 $34.95 USD
HeroQuest and Glorantha are registered trademarks of
Moon Design Publications LLC. All rights reserved.
Discover more at www.glorantha.com

