THE HERO WARS BEGIN
IN DRAGON PASS
You are heroes of the Red Cow clan, from the Cinsina tribe,
of the Jonstown Confederation in the kingdom of Sartar.
Fend off Chaos, werewolves, other tribes, and more in this
epic campaign that takes your heroes from the depths of the
Occupation of the kingdom of Sartar by the Lunar Empire
in 1618 through to the Liberation of the kingdom in 1625.

WHAT IS HEROQUEST?
HeroQuest is an innovative, dynamic, and flexible story-game
rules engine. It presents a simple rules system that ‘gets out of
the way’ making it quick to prepare for a game, or in play—
leaving more time for the story. It allows Game Masters to

WHAT IS GLORANTHA?
Glorantha is the most elegant, original, and imaginative
fantasy setting since Middle Earth. A unique bronze age
setting, it is a world of exotic myth and awesome magic,
self-contained and unique in its creation. The existence
and use of the magical and mythic realms are central to the
physics of Glorantha. Here the gods and heroes guard and
guide their followers, sharing magics while pursuing their
own enigmatic ends. Glorantha’s detailed cultures, histories,
and myths are shaped by gods, heroes, and magic, and yet
are plausible and logically self-consistent. Glorantha has
been the setting for the RuneQuest roleplaying game, and
the award-winning computer game King of Dragon Pass.
Glorantha is fully described in the Guide to Glorantha,
available from Chaosium.

This book is a companion to The Coming Storm which details the setting in which
the adventures here take place: The Red Cow clan and their neighbors. It is intended
for use with that product. It requires the use of the HeroQuest Glorantha rules.

CHA4031 $34.95 USD

HeroQuest and Glorantha are registered trademarks of
Moon Design Publications LLC. All rights reserved.
Discover more at www.glorantha.com
Printed in China

CHA4031

THIS IS NOT A STANDALONE BOOK!

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — VOLUME II

The campaign in this book has a year-by-year outline for
events for the Red Cow clan and Dragon Pass for those
years. Included are twenty complete adventures set in that
exciting period, along with many more adventure seeds.
The adventures feature two complete heroquests, including
a quest to the Underworld and Sky that will result in your
PCs changing the world.

run games modelled on ancient myth, epic sagas, and tales
of high adventure. HeroQuest encourages creative input from
players, resulting in an exciting, unpredictable narrative
created through group play.

s
• Red Cow Book 2 •

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS

gWs
Chaosium Inc.
3450 Wooddale Ct
Ann Arbor, MI 48104

• CREDITS •
Written by
Ian Cooper, Jeff Richard, Greg Stafford
With Assistance by
Martin Helsdon
Proofreading
Martin Helsdon, T.R. Knight, Richard Perry
Special Thanks to
Neil Robinson, Robin Laws
Cover Art by
Jon Hodgson
Illustrations by
Bernard Bittler, Simon Bray, Jed Dougherty, Colin Driver, Stefano Gaudiano, Kalin Kadiev, Rachel Kahn,
Manoel Magalhães, Juha Makkonen, Reg Moulin, Jan Pospisil, Adam Schmidt, David Michael Wright
Graphic Design & Layout by
Michal E. Cross
Additional Contributions
Simon Bray, Juho Korolainen, Rick Meints, Jeff Kyer, Mark Galeotti, Martin Helsdon,
Roderick Robertson, David Scott and many others
Play Testing
Hervé Carteau, Chris Killey, Juho Korolainen, Eric Vanel, The Monday Nighters, La Garde de La Pierre Bazanne,
Folks at Continuum, Tentacles, Eternal Con, and Kraken over the years
Copyright © 2017 Moon Design Publications LLC. All rights reserved.
Reproduction of this work by any means without written permission from the publisher,
except short excerpts for the purpose of reviews or game play, is expressly prohibited. Glorantha, RuneQuest,
and HeroQuest are trademarks of Moon Design Publications LLC.
First Chaosium Printing — July 2017
ISBN# 978-1-56882-444-4
Would you like to know more about Glorantha?
See our extensive website at www.chaosium.com
May Arachne Solara bless and protect this book.

• CONTENTS •
Chapter 1: PLAYING THE GAME . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Chapter 2: 1618 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Chapter 3: 1619. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Chapter 4: 1620 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Chapter 5: 1621-1622 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Chapter 6: 1623 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 144
Chapter 7: 1624 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 155
Chapter 8: 1625. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 162
Chapter 9: EPILOGUE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 175
Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 176

• Chapter 1 •

PLAYING
THE GAME

4

INTRODUCTION

ANNUAL FORMAT

The Eleven Lights lets you play members of the Red Cow clan as
the Hero Wars begin in Dragon Pass. The campaign stretches
between 1618 and 1625. It is the second volume in a series that
began with The Coming Storm.
The first volume in the series focused on the setting for
the campaign, the Red Cow clan of the Cinsina, and their
neighbors. It outlined how your players could create Red
Cow PCs for the campaign and the key NPCs, locations, and
conflicts of the campaign.
This volume contains the information the GM needs to run
an eight-year campaign that takes the players through the height
of the Lunar occupation of Sartar to the kingdom’s liberation. It
begins in 1618, before the lowest point for the Orlanthi rebellion
against the Empire: the Windstop and Great Winter that
follows. This gives your players time to become accustomed to
day-to-day life in a Sartarite clan, forge alliances and friendships,
and develop enemies before that life is disrupted at the end of
1621. With those ties to the setting, the feeling for the rhythm
of normal life, the players should feel more keenly the impact of
the events of that year, and sense that the Hero Wars are coming
and nothing will be the same again.
We begin with introductory episodes intended to introduce
the players to the NPCs, but quickly move to include the impact
of larger events on the clan. It is the authors’ expectation that
you will run your own episodes as part of the campaign, to reflect
your PCs and your players’ desires and preferences. We include
an extensive set of template episodes that represent common
activities, to help you when preparing your own games.
Since the early days of the Gloranthan gaming magazine
Wyrms Footnotes, in whose pages we learned of Greg Stafford’s
Colymar campaign, and his PCs adventures with the Temple
of the Wooden Sword, fighting in Starbrow’s Rebellion, and
performing a Crown Test to try and win rule of that tribe, the
campaign based around a Sartarite clan struggling for liberation
has been one of the classic settings for Gloranthan gaming. (The
other being the treasure hunting campaign set in the ruins of the
Big Rubble, adjacent to the city of Pavis, led by Steve Perrin.)
For many people, the task of detailing the NPCS, locations, and
conflicts then plotting out episodes is too time consuming to hope
to create a game that matches Greg’s groups’ famous adventures.
With these two volumes we want to give you the material you
need to run your own story, based in a Sartarite clan, that rivals
Greg’s game with little preparation, and we hope that it brings
your group many nights of epic gaming pleasure in that tradition.

For each year, we provide an outline of the significant
developments within the setting and suggest episodes that can
occur during those years.

CONFLICTS
Conflict powers stories. A community-centered game needs
a community that has conflicts within it. Before the game
starts, those conflicts are in stasis or status quo. As the game
commences, a crisis drives the conflict within the community
out of equilibrium and into a new phase. The PCs, through
their involvement in that crisis, help weigh the balance in the
community conflict in favor of one side or the other — they
become the catalysts for community change.
The crisis may be the result of abstract forces or external
forces. That is the role of such forces within the story, to drive
the conflict within the community, which is what interests us.
The players themselves might be the source of conflict.
The NPCs within the communities described in Red Cow
belong to factions — those factions are in conflict. At the
beginning of the game most of those conflicts are at a status
quo. The rivals: Kangharl, Farandar, and Borngold vie for
Broddi’s office, but until the chieftain makes a mistake the
clan will not remove him; Gudny and Morganeth want to
bring down Ivar, but the knowledge of their betrayal of Arnal
prevents them acting, etc.
Every year we identify the key threats to the Red Cow. The
threats will create conflict with people outside the clan, but also
within the clan, as the different factions struggle for advantage.
Before 1624 the key conflict is that between the Rivals (see
page XX), their competing agendas will dominate the different
responses to such crises. After 1624, the PCs themselves ought
to be amongst the prime movers and shakers responding to
these threats.
In those pre-1624 episodes the Rivals will seize upon any
threat to the clan as an opportunity to: push their leadership,
weaken the Rivals, and destroy their enemies. After a few
episodes, the PCs will become familiar with this ‘hidden
agenda’ within the clan and expect it to appear. Adding more
NPCs who support each of the Rivals lets you add a little
variety, when dealing directly with the Rivals each week
becomes stale.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

THE RING
The ring is the heart of the clan
and changes here will create
threats and opportunities for
the players as people rise and
fall in influence.

THE HERO WARS
The entries are presented
season-by-season. In addition
to the events that form part of
the Hero Wars, we also provide
information on likely local
events. Some of these provide
color, but others provide the
local reaction to the Hero
Wars. We recommend that
you mix in both. The grand
events of the Hero Wars can
seem meaningless without a
context in which the PCs care
about them.

RESOURCES, BACKGROUND EVENTS,
AND CRISIS TESTS
We suggest you use an interval of a season to track the Red Cow’s
Resource fluctuation due to Background Events as per HeroQuest
Glorantha. You may want to tie this test in with the moot, when
everyone takes stock of the clan’s position.
We recommend having the clan record sheet out on the
table during play, and making it clear to the PCs that Resources
have fallen and the possible consequences. This may play into
attempts to bolster Resources. We provide some suggestions for
this below, particularly in the common episodes. Let the PCs
debate the clan’s course of action in the moot. You should also
make it clear that the PCs can borrow the clan’s Resources, and
encourage them to approach the ring to use them.
If the clan’s Resources decline, you should make a Crisis Test
for the community. As recommended in HeroQuest Glorantha,
you may want to skip the crises tests when the PCs have enough
to occupy their attention.
Sometimes events of the Hero Wars dictate a Resource
fluctuation and Resource Crisis. We indicate that in the text,
saving you the need to roll.

IMPORTANT NPCS
For each year, we list the important NPCs for that year, to help
manage the cast list for The Coming Storm. Over that period, a
number of significant characters will come and go.
Given the number of NPCs in this book, it’s helpful to know
which ones you need to understand for a given year. This list
gives you that information.
Of course, as each year passes, NPCs who do not feature in
the next year can always make a comeback in your own episodes,

Armies will clash in the Hero Wars
or added into the ones here, if the PCs have relationships with
them, the players like them, or the situation demands. Similarly
feel free to bring in NPCs early; this list is just an aid to the
minimum you need to know.

MANAGING NPCS
At first glance, the number of NPCs within The Coming Storm
may seem intimidating. How do you keep track of large numbers
of NPCs within an episode?
A relationship map creates conflicts that drive the story —
perhaps more so than the situation at the heart of the episode. One
technique is to write the NPCs and PCs out on a sheet of paper,
with lines between them showing their connections, as a visual aid
to the players in seeing the web of conflict in the episode.
The other warning is not to try to play all of the NPCs in
all these communities at once. That would be overwhelming,
even for the authors. Think of a genre TV show. We don’t meet
all the cast at once. Instead from a core of characters, we spread
outwards. Pick a manageable number of NPCs to start with,
perhaps a dozen. Then introduce new NPCs as old ones grow
stale or the PCs actions demand new opponents and rivals.
When the game starts, it may be enough in character
generation to tell the players about Broddi Strong-Kin (see
page XX) and the Rivals (see page XX) from the Red Cow clan.
Then as the PCs tell you whom they want to play, pick out ring
members, housecarls, thanes, priests, god-talkers, and bloodline
elders who can help them. Be guided by what the PCs want
their story to be. At this point you want to limit your palette to
a dozen NPCs. You may find it helpful to sketch this dozen on
a simple relationship map, and show the PCs their connections
with them and each other.

Playing the Game

5

As an example, the Game Master is running a Cattle Raid against
the Emerald Sword in 1618 and is choosing NPCs to feature in
the scenario.
One of the PCs hates the Dinacoli and has a relationship
to Darna Longcoat, so the Game Master decides to bring her
in as a potential sponsor of the raid. To show the conflict of
the Conquering Storm faction with the Eye of the Hurricane
faction, the Game Master remembers that Darna’s rival is Broddi
Strong-Kin who has to give permission for the raid and deal with
the aftermath. She includes him in her relationship map.
The Game Master decides that things will escalate and so
includes Kangharl as well.
Upping the tempo now that she has chosen Kangharl, the
Game Master decides to bring in Korlmhyor the Swift from
the Emerald Sword. The Game Master also decides to bring
in Jarstak Bristle-Beard — she decides that Kangharl wants to
send an old hand in with the PCs, and the Game Master feels
sure that controlling Jarstak will prove an issue for PCs who do
not want trouble on the raid.
The Game Master sketches out these relationships visually so
that the players can reference the key NPCs easily.

leadership of the Jonstown Confederation; Jomes Hostralos,
struggling without enough resources to hold on to the kingdom,
who fuels the conflict to keep the Culbrea busy; Kallyr Starbrow
who wants to unite the tribes against the Empire, provided they
give her their loyalty.
The Game Master imagines this will play out in a number of
acts beginning with the Cinsina tribal council.
For the tribal council on Raven’s Ait, she decides to play up the
conflicts within the tribe. She focuses on building a relationship
map for that act. So for now she focuses on the people in the
tribe who will play a part in the decision to or not to send the
Black Arrow, declaring war on the Culbrea.
From the clans, she brings in Broddi Strong-Kin who Ivartha
sees as a weak appeaser, he calls for returning the old clans over
paying tribute; Edrath the Wise of the Blueberry, who have no
desire to return to the Culbrea and want the Red Cow to honor
vows of friendship; and Ivar Quickstep who wants the kingship
for himself and would do whatever is expedient to see Ivartha
weakened and other clans following him. Other clan chieftains
will certainly be there, and the PCs and NPCs might involve them
— but she wants to focus on creating scenes with these NPCs.
From the tribe she draws in Verlain Never-Doubt, Broddi’s
son and a natural ally on the ring, and Kallai Hairy-Breeks who
wants the tribe to dominate the Jonstown Confederation and
fears the Dinacoli and Culbrea. Other NPCs might be drawn in,
but she wants to focus on scenes with these characters.
She also brings in Sureela Far-Traveled, as an agent provocateur
for Jomes. She has her disguised as a puppeteer, drawn to the
council meeting to ply her trade as an entertainer, and as a recent
lover of the queen’s housecarl Vastyr Bloody-Shirt.
This is a large cast for an episode with ten NPCs, who all
have conflicting goals — but the Game Master and players
feel comfortable with many of these NPCs by this point in the
campaign. When she sketches out the NPCs, the Game Master is
open about Sureela’s deceit, allowing the players to play into the
story line of a Lunar spy. Some groups have difficulty knowing
the hidden identity, in which case the Game Master might just
draw up the sketch with Sureela disguised.
She does not create the map for later acts; the outcome of
this act will determine what happens next; war or peace weaving.
Once she knows how the PCs react she will build a new map at
that point.

War Drums

YOUR NPCS

As another example, the Game Master is running the conflict
between the Culbrea and the Cinsina in 1623. Events have
escalated; after refusal by the Red Cow and Blueberry to pay
tribute to the Culbrea, King Ranulf has unleashed the Two-Pine
clan. The Two-Pine has made two abortive attempts to take the
Bloody Sword Tribute, but deaths mount on either side. The
Cinsina have called a tribal council and are ready to send the
Black Arrow.
To begin filling out the relationship map, the Game Master
thinks about the key figures involved and starts with four NPCs
she sees as being at the corners of the conflict. King Ranulf, proud
and independent, determined to reassert the Culbrea; Ivartha
the Skinner, grim and battling, determined to keep Cinsina

It may seem strange, when we have talked about the number
of NPCs that you have to manage to talk about introducing
your own NPCs — but your campaign will be stronger if you
introduce your own recurring NPCs. Some of these will be color,
with little impact on the big story-lines, but well known to the
players for their quirks. Others may be key obstacles and rivals
to the players’ own agendas. Some may be characters mentioned
only in passing here — ring members of other clans without
detailed descriptions. Within the communities covered here, we
have only scratched the surface of the number of people, so there
is plenty of room for you to expand.
You might also find that some of the keys NPCs here don’t suit
you or your players. Feel free to change them to your liking. Apart

Within each episode we give advice on the additional NPCs
you may need to introduce — the cast. For your own episodes we
recommend no more than a half-dozen NPCs in the cast. Try to
introduce no more than a couple of new NPCs in a given episode,
make most of them NPCs you have already added to your map —
though episodes taking you outside the clan to a neighbor for the
first time might add two or three new NPCs the first time.
When picking NPCs before 1624, focus on the Rivals
(see page XX): Borngold, Kangharl, and Farandar and their
supporters. The choice between these leaders during the election
of a new chieftain should be a key moment, so foreshadow it
by having their agendas pushed regularly. Of course, the PCs
themselves may stand in the election, but it is even more sweet
to overcome rivals whom you have met episode after episode.
After 1624, bring in NPCs who can challenge the PCs’
leadership of the Eleven Lights or the Red Cow.
If possible, bring in NPCs that already have links to the PCs.
Recurring characters can both bring the PCs into the episode,
and have a reason to approach the PCs.
Jarstak’s Raid

6

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

from Broddi and the Rivals (see page XX), most of the NPCs here
can easily be customized for your campaign without issue.
In play-test, one of the authors had a cast list twice the size
of the cast list here, when NPCs not in this book are tallied up.

EPISODES
We also provide suggested episodes for each year. Most episodes
can occur in any season and the suggestions here are just that,
but a few do not make sense if they are not run in sequence.
Interweave your own episodes with these. We cannot know what
story-lines your players want to pursue, but you can find that out
by looking at the Narrative Hooks they chose for their characters.
Do not feel pressured to run all of these episodes. The breadth
here is to give you the widest choice to find something that fits
your group, not to suggest that all of this will happen in one year.
More episodes should occur in Sea and Fire Season than any
other. This reflects the Orlanthi year. Spring and summer are
times to be away from home. Fall is about the harvest and in
winter, folk stay home and tell stories.

SANDBOX VS. STORY
Some groups like Sandbox style games, some prefer stories. We
try to support both play styles here.
The conflicts built into the setting make The Coming Storm
ideal for sandbox play. Simply push your players in the direction
of the conflicts here and then let events unfold, as they will. If
you intend to use a sandbox style, you might omit many of the
episodes here in favor of responding to the players. You will
find the Common Activities and the Background Events and
Resource Crisis to be helpful in this style of play.
We also provide a story for the clan’s struggle to survive the
Hero Wars between 1618 and 1625 for those who prefer that
style of play.
You can combine both. Even in sandbox play the threats
to the clan should not be static, and you can take the seasonal
developments for each year as an indication of what will happen,
if the PCs don’t act to prevent it, or what they will have to
deal with. You can also use the story here to drive elements in
sandbox play, but take the Begins With and be very fluid about
what follows and the outcomes. You can also follow the story
here, but switch to a more player-directed style in between the
great events. That is one of the author’s preferred approaches to
this material in play-testing.
The goal of this book is to support you, whatever your preferred
style, but that of necessity requires you to determine how best to
use the material with your group’s preferred play style.

YOUR EPISODES
We don’t intend for you just to play the episodes in the timeline
here. Many of the episodes are triggered by events outside the
clan, and if you only play those adventures, the PCs might feel
they are constantly hostages to fortune. Instead, we recommend
inserting your own episodes in between. In these episodes focus
on advancing the stories of the PCs. Look at the Narrative Hook
on the PCs’ character sheets and create stories that challenge
those goals. Look at the relationships on their character sheets,

and prepare episodes that bring in those characters. Look to the
Community Resources, if some of them are declining, ask the PCs
what they want to do about that. Sometimes do zero preparation
and run a session based on whatever the players want their PCs
to do, or if inspiration fails you, start with an encounter from the
Sartar Companion, and allow the PCs to direct subsequent events.

COMMON ACTIVITIES
We provide a number of template episodes — Common
Activities — for common conflicts an Orlanthi clan encounters.
These are intended to help create episodes of your own — as well
as being a resource to describe the published episodes here. In
play, personalize them for your group by introducing recurring
NPCs from your game. Add elements that make sense for your
group and their PCs’ goals.
You can use these templates for running any clan-based Orlanthi
game, not just The Coming Storm.
Common Activities are Seasonal

There is a rhythm to clan life, dictated by the seasons.
A Background Event (see HeroQuest Glorantha) should be
seasonally appropriate; a Wealth Background Event in Sea Season
might be a cattle raid by a neighboring clan, a Background Event
in Earth Season might be a poor harvest. A Resource Crisis (see
HeroQuest Glorantha) should similarly reflect the season, but
the PCs should have the chance to confront it. So a Wealth
Resource Crisis in Fire Season might have the PCs on a stead as
a neighboring clan tries to steal cattle, a War Resource Crisis in
Fire Season might have the PCs caught up in a full-scale Raid to
burn steads and plunder by a hostile clan.
In Sea Season the farmers are planting, and the roads are
often muddy so raiding is rare. However, some cattle raiding
occurs amongst neighboring clans. Clans may send emissaries
to neighbors as well, to renew friendships or alliances, and clans
may trade winter surplus, or simply swap one winter store for
another to get some variety. If a clan had a poor harvest, this is
the period when starvation bites, so a clan may send emissaries
to beg food from the neighbors. Broddi has put aside food in
storage pits in Red Cow Fort so hungry neighbors often petition
the Red Cow in Sea Season. Broddi is generous, determined to
build peace. The thanes begin patrolling the clan land again,
looking for trouble after the winter.
In Fire Season the demands of the agricultural cycle are less,
and so clans launch cattle raids against their neighbors or raid
their enemies for plunder or revenge. The thanes become restless
if the clan does not raid its enemies, the farmers become restless
if the neighbors raid them too much. Amongst the Red Cow,
Darna Longcoat and Kangharl Black-Brow goad the warriors
to raid despite Broddi’s objections that raiding undermines his
attempts to build peace. The Empire moves its troops for military
campaigns during Fire Season and rebel activity is at its height,
trying to disrupt that. Banditry is also at its worst in Fire Season,
especially if a clan does not patrol its borders. Fire Season is also
the time to send emissaries and traders to clans further away, or
to Jonstown or Boldhome.
In Earth Season, the harvest dominates and all hands are
required to reap the crops, make hay, gather firewood and slaughter

Playing the Game

7

KING OF
DRAGON PASS
The computer game
King of Dragon Pass
gives an insight into
the yearly cycle of life in
an Orlanthi clan and
the types of activities
that occur. It is also
a great inspiration
for the kind of events
that happen when
the clan experiences
a Resource Crisis.
Playing a few turns of
King of Dragon Pass
will give players and
Game Masters new to
Glorantha an insight
into this cycle.

the surplus animals. If a clan sends out raiders in
Earth Season it risks failing to bring in the harvest.
Broddi never consents to this. The tribal moot at
the end of Fire Season is positioned to allow clans
to stop feuds boiling over into harvest. The harvest
is a good time for sending emissaries to other clans,
with agricultural surplus as gifts, marriage proposals
because the annual slaughter is a popular time for
feasts, or, if a clan falls on hard times, requests to
neighbors who have had a better harvest. A War
Clan, such as the Two-Pine, may send emissaries to
demand tribute if they do not have enough wealth
from raiding in Fire Season. They have nothing to
lose by raiding in Earth Season, so clans usually try
to buy them off.
In Dark Season, winter prevents most travel.
People stay at home, out of the snow and ice.
Crises during this period are weather or Darkness
foe related. The Red Cow may suffer from ogres,
their Darkness enemy in this season for example.
In Storm Season people focus on religious
activities with Orlanth’s High Holy Day, and
Sacred Time approaching. It is the time to renew
vows to the gods, maintain temples and shrines,
and heroquest. If the weather is fine clans may
go cattle raiding, though it is usually too wet for
raiding and war.
In Sacred Time everyone stops what they are
doing and takes part in the renewal of the world.

LET THE DICE FALL
In a chronicle campaign, we cover many years.
Over those years, people come and people go.
Some people will die, and new leaders join the ring
and old leaders leave.

We outline a possible set of changes in the
campaign outline below.
Do not feel constrained to follow these changes
and make them happen.
Instead, go with the flow of your campaign. If
Broddi is voted from office in 1620 and one of your
PCs becomes chieftain leading the clan through the
dangers of the Great Winter, so be it.
Always let the PCs’ actions have consequences
instead of letting the text constrain you. Let the
results of the dice stand and use those results to
assess impact.
In play-test, one group responded to the Culbrea
threat in 1623 by trying to raise the Cinsina in
rebellion. Some preparation and lucky dice rolls
gave them a complete victory and the Cinsina rose
in rebellion to expel the Lunars from their lands. By
the end of that year the Red Cow, Blueberry, and
Greenhaft were free, other clans remained under
Lunar Occupation, and Willandring the Giant
had killed Broddi Strong-Kin having been freed by
Ustarna. The setting for the next year was unlike
that presented for 1624 here, but rich in conflict.
So roll with the dice, let them fall where they may.
The best way to understand the timeline, and
episodes given here is to perceive it as a timeline
of what will happen if the players do not interfere.
It shows the results of the actions of larger forces
in the world such as the Lunar Empire and the
Rebellion; it shows the actions of NPCs such as the
Rivals (see page XX), neighboring clan chieftains
or Telmori shaman.
If the players interfere, many of these elements
could change. For example in your game the PCs
might assassinate Jogar Sog, preventing the war
with the Telmori and negotiate peace with BlackPaws Helkos. Don’t fight that, if your players are
engaging with the setting in that way let them run
with it.
This setting is yours now. Let your players tear
it up, roll with the new directions they give you. In
such moments you will find the true gold of your
Coming Storm campaign.
What Can’t Change

So what could change if the players’ actions break
the assumptions here? One answer is nothing, what
happens in your game is right: Your Glorantha
May Vary.
If you want to ensure that you are following
the history of the Hero Wars other Moon Designs
supplements will rely on, then it is worth noting
that it will be assumed the following events covered
in this book happened:

The dice fall where they will

8

• 1619, The Bat Comes to Sartar
• 1621-1622, Orlanth is Dead

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

the petitioner from seeing the chieftain, etc., and claim they are
being railroaded. Point out that you are not removing their
power to make choices, simply framing a scene for them to react
to. Once the episode has started they are free to act as they wish.

• 1622, The Three New Stars
• 1622-1623, The Rising of the Culbrea
• 1624, The Eleven Lights
• 1625, The Liberation of Jonstown
• 1625, The Battle of Dangerford

EPISODE FORMAT

In addition, many of the off-stage events in the Hero Wars
timeline will have happened. The timeline given in The Guide to
Glorantha should be your yardstick here.
Note that we cover the option of the Three New Stars heroquest
failing in this book — which may mean that your game deviates
from the outline of history presented in the Guide. Your game
however will be rich, as the heroes try to deal with the collapse of
their clan in the Great Winter.

MAKE FAILURE INTERESTING
When using the Pass/Fail cycle in HeroQuest Glorantha this
‘only winning is interesting’ can become a problem as the cycle
is designed to force reversals on a PC that has had a string of
successes.
The trick is to ensure that failure is motivating because
it creates additional problems for the PC. These additional
problems create more conflict, which is the lifeblood of stories.
Don’t block a player with failure; make it more complicated for
them to achieve their goal.
The locked door problem is a good example. If adventure lies
beyond the door, then the PC’s failure to pick the lock described
as “you cannot open the door” will not be interesting. But if the
PC meets a guard, whilst trying to open the door on a failure, you
have increased the conflict instead.
When naming the prize, try to make the Consequences of Defeat
create further complications — it’s not always possible, sometimes
defeat is just that, but look at outcomes that increase complexity.
In some cases we use ‘In Media Res’ to avoid failure. Where
we know that the PCs could not succeed we move the timeline
past the obstacle. That allows us to have flashbacks if we want to,
highlighting the heroism of the PCs when facing that adversity,
without creating a contest we know the PCs cannot win.

IN MEDIA RES
The Latin ‘In Media Res’ means ‘in the middle of things’ and is
a narrative technique for opening the telling of a story not from
the beginning, establishing situation and character, but from
some point in, with dramatic action. Flashbacks or exposition
often fill in the earlier parts of the story.
We use this technique in a couple of places. For example the
episode, The Burning of Lhankpentos the Blind begins with the
stead alight, and surrounded by raiders. Orlanth is Dead begins
with Broddi evacuating the clan to Red Cow Fort when the
Great Winter sets in.
The reason for using this technique is to avoid playing out
any pre-amble and to dive into the kernel of the story. Flashback
scenes can always fill in any needed character actions during
those periods where the player wants to establish facts about their
character’s actions in the events leading up to the current crisis.
Some players might object to beginning ‘in media res’ stating
that they would have set guards, been alert for trouble, prevented

This episode format is intended to be “just-enough” to run a
session. The goal is to provide sufficient info that you are not stuck
for “what happens next” during a session, but not so much that it
dissuades you from embracing player creativity during a session.
Begins With

All stories have to start somewhere. The purpose of this section
is to draw players into the adventure beginning with what might
be a ‘push’ to thrust them into the adventure willing or not, or
it might be a ‘pull’ which lures the players into the adventure.
Of course, with a ‘pull,’ the PCs might simply ignore the lure.
If that happens, do not try to force the players to follow a pull.
Decide how events unfold ‘off-camera,’ and present those in turn
to the players. Meanwhile look for another episode for tonight’s
entertainment. ‘Begins With’ is the teaser trailer that hooks us
into the action.
Cast

A great tool for the Game Master to drive events forward is
the cast of NPCs. The Coming Storm has a host of NPCs so
to help sort through them we provide a suggested cast. Feel
free to alter this to substitute NPCs with more relevance to
the players.
Situation

All good stories arise from conflict, so in this section we present
the underlying conflict the players must resolve. In some cases
the players could be expected to know all this, from simply living
in the community, in other cases it represents dark secrets they
may uncover.
Twists

Some fact adding complexity to the situation, often discovered
mid-session. A twist may force the PCs to change direction when
discovered. In movie-speak, folk often call this a ‘reversal.’
Connected Episodes

The consequences of one episode may create new ones. We list
any other episodes within The Coming Storm that help you play
out those sequels.
Acts, Scenes, and Beats

An episode consists of acts, which in turn comprise scenes which
are made up of beats.
A beat is a moment of action and reaction; it’s usually a
contest where you roll the dice because the outcome is uncertain.
If it’s not a contest, then it’s just exposition; avoid too much
exposition — show don’t tell. The beat should compel a reaction
from the PCs, and tell us something about them. You can find
a great discussion of beats by one of the authors of HeroQuest
Glorantha, Robin Laws, in Hamlet’s Hit Points.

Playing the Game

9

THE PASS/FAIL
CYCLE
One way to use the
pass/fail cycle in
combination with this
kind of play is to let
it prompt you as to
the type of scene you
narrate. If the pass/fail
cycle suggests the PCs
face a Low resistance,
narrate a scene putting
the PCs in conflict with
a foe they can easily
overcome. If the pass/fail
cycle suggests that the
PCs need to encounter
a High resistance,
put them in a scene
with an NPC who
will challenge them.
This is a more natural
expression of the pass/
fail cycle than simply
running the next scene
regardless and trying to
explain away the pass/
fail cycle results.
Of course, as always,
bear in mind that
the pass/fail cycle is a
tool to use when your
inspiration fails you.

Because they are moments in play when
something significant enough happens to result in
a contest we often detail examples of what beats
may be relevant in a scene. But you should expect
to create more, based on your players’ actions,
and skip some of those we provide as unsuitable.
The narrator drives the story by creating beats
for the PCs, or managing those they create for
themselves.
Most beats do not demand an Extended
Contest, only a Simple one.
A scene takes place in a location, it is a ministory with beginning, middle, and a climax; it has
NPCs. It should end in a contest whose result in
a definite change to the situation, either in favor
of the PCs or against them. A scene comprises a
number of beats. If you are using the pass/fail cycle
then what you are tracking usually is the scene
outcome, the significant moment, and not the
little interchanges that build to that.
The final beat of a scene may invite an Extended
Contest, though the narrator should be sure that
the ebb-and-flow of the contest demands that.
We present scenes for the episodes below. The
scenes we present are optional. Once you have
presented the hook in ‘Begins With’ to the players
allow them to drive the action. React to their
actions with your NPCs, guided by the situation.
Don’t force these scenes on your players. If they
do not occur naturally, leave them out. Providing
everyone is having fun there is no need to dip in
here.
An act is a series of scenes. An act has a bigger
climax; the situation that the PCs find themselves
in is transformed.
Again we provide act divisions for the episodes
below — unless they are one act episodes.
The final beat of the final scene of an act may well
demand an Extended Contest; if the opportunity
for an Extended Contest does not emerge, then
there may not be enough at stake in the scene.
It is likely that the final act should have an
Extended Contest if one has not previously
occurred, though it may not be the final scene if
there is exposition at the end of the story.
The final scene of the final act should use the
climatic resolution table. For an episode to be
truly satisfying then a Major or Complete result
is necessary, otherwise loose ends may demand
another episode to draw the story to a conclusion.
An episode has one or more acts.
To show the difference between these we show
them as follows:

ACT
Scene

10

Play of the Game

We provide some advice on how to use this episode.
We also discuss how the episode may play out and
tricks and tips to make it work in your game.

HEROQUEST FORMAT
We use the same format for heroquests seen in
earlier publications.

COMMON
ACTIVITIES
Some activities occur from year-to-year and form
part of the common events of Orlanthi life. The
outline of these activities is the same and so we
provide a common episode outline for them.
The idea is that you can use these outlines as a
framework to run adventures in any year of the
campaign, Although you can use these at any time,
we offer suggested episodes in some years outlining
specific people and places for these activities and
their consequences.
These common activities can also be used in
other Orlanthi games, such as in a game set amidst
the Orlmarth clan of the Colymar.

TEMPLATE EPISODE LIST
• Cattle Raid
• Emissaries
• Feast
• Feud
• Peace Weaving
• Patrol
• Trade

CATTLE RAID
BEGINS WITH
If you want the PCs to join a cattle raid begin
with a call to raid, either from an NPC who
intends to lead the raid or an elder who goads
the young men to prove themselves. You might
have the PCs’ stead be the victims of a cattle raid
by another clan, perhaps roused at night by the
hissing of alynxes or the lowing of cattle.

CAST
Broddi Strong-Kin will tend to be involved, as he
will grant permission to raid, or react to the fallout

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

Raiding is common, after sowing and before the harvest
from a raid. A thane like Ortossi, Kernalda, or Jarstak might lead
a raid. A leader like Kangharl, Farandar, or Borngold may call on
the young men to show their mettle through raiding.

SITUATION
In late Sea Season and early Fire Season, when the farm work
eases off enough to free men up from the land, a clan may raid
neighbors to steal their cattle. Going on a cattle raid is one way
young men show their mettle, and acquire cows to increase their
own herds. For warlike clans, raiding is a way of life, but even
peaceful clans will raid their neighbors to steal their cattle. A cattle
raid is not about killing, and while fighting can occur, a cattle
raid is more about ‘counting coup,’ practicing for real war, and
gaining wealth, than confronting your enemies. An experienced
raider usually announces the attempt to raid and recruits a small
band, for stealth is of the essence, to sneak into the enemy clan
lands. A raid leader should gain the permission of the chieftain
before heading out, but chieftains who refuse the young men the
opportunity will find they go without his permission.

a chieftain may decline to allow raids against friends, or when a
situation with an enemy clan is on the verge of becoming a feud,
and the chieftain does not want it to escalate further. Sometimes
the chieftain approves of a raid, but cannot be seen to approve it.
In this case, he gives the raiders permission to ‘visit your far-off
cousin’ or ‘travel to market to buy a new horse.’ Unsanctioned
raids will find it harder to attract followers if they choose to
continue. They may also find much of the wealth appropriated,
which should be gifted to the chieftain to pay wergild for any
trouble caused.
Gather Spears

Raiding bands are small, a dozen men or less, as stealth not
might is the best approach to stealing cattle. Still, a player band
may not have enough people to conduct a raid and may want to
recruit kinsmen to help them.
Sacrifice to the Gods

CONNECTED EPISODES

Nothing important happens without a sacrifice. Sacrifices are
usually to Orlanth for aid on the raid. Significant sacrifices
(succeed in a Wealth contest) result in Orlanth’s favor to the
raiders and a Benefit of Victory for contests on the raid.

Feud, Patrol, Peace Weaving

The Raid

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS
CATTLE RAID
Gain permission to raid

Raiding is expected of young men, so it is rare for a chieftain to
refuse them the right to raid. This may be an Auto-Success or
Arduous Auto-Success, or perhaps an Easy resistance. However,

The raiders try to avoid any patrols, herders, or shepherds.
Being spotted is likely to result in the guard blowing his horn to
alert any nearby village to the presence of strangers on the clan
lands. In turn, nearby thanes will rouse their household to begin
trawling the clan lands for the intruders, possibly sending word
to the chieftain so that the whole clan can be alerted.
Raiders do not only target adjacent clans. The journey may be an
important part of the story, but in many cases just use an Arduous
Auto-Success or Costly Success (see HeroQuest Glorantha).

Playing the Game

11

The goal is to take their cows before nearby villagers can react.
Herdsmen watching over the cattle and alynxes prove a hazard.
The prize animals may be in the homefield — closest to the
village — and thus most difficult to steal without being spotted.
If the band cannot sneak the cattle away without being seen,
the village will be roused. The raiders may flee at this point;
otherwise, they may end up in a fight with the farmers of the stead.
If a fight breaks out, there may well be serious injuries and
deaths. That means compensation paid to the clans that suffer a
loss, and might lead to a blood feud.
The thanes will blow their horns and summon villagers to the
defense of the clan. As they pursue the raiders, they will gather
more and more supporters to their side.
The PCs need to drive their cattle back over the border and
fast. Failure means that the thanes catch up with the PCs and
demand their cows back. Once again, cooler heads need to
prevail if this is not to turn into a feud.
The victims of the raid home may not be the only opposition
to the journey home. If the raiders have traveled some distance,
intervening clans may demand tribute (in stolen cows) for
passage. Natural obstacles may make herding the cows home
difficult as well.
Divide Up the Spoils

If the PCs escape with cows then the leader should gift the
chieftain with the cows. The chieftain should then reward the
raiders in turn, handing the cows back out to the players. If the
raiders kill anyone though, the chieftain will keep the cows saying
that they will be needed to pay wergild. Anyone participating
in an unapproved raid will also find the chieftain may not be
generous when it comes to gifting cows.
A successful cattle raid can bolster a community’s Wealth. If
a community suffers due to a poor year or its enemies, it may
raid its enemies to restore its Wealth. A successful cattle raid
can also bolster the community’s Morale, but only against the
clan’s enemies.
However, complications reveal the danger of unsuccessful
cattle raids. Someone may be killed leading to a feud, or the
chieftain may refuse permission to raid to avoid provoking a
troubled relationship with another clan. A Resource Crisis to
Peace might result from just such a raid.

PLAY OF THE GAME
A cattle raid is a routine adventure for young Orlanthi. It is a
chance to gain wealth, and prove honor and courage.
A cattle raid usually begins with Gain Permission to Raid,
and then proceeds to Gather Spears, Sacrifice to the Gods, Travel
into the Other Clan’s Lands, Steal the Herd, and Flee with Your
Prize. With success comes Divide Up the Spoils.
Broddi never gives permission to raid friends. The risk of
a raid against the Underwillow, Frithan, or Blueberry clan
souring a friendship is too great. Broddi also never gives
permission to raid Wulfsland, fearing Jomes’ wrath. Broddi
dislikes giving permission to raid the clan’s enemies, the
Dinacoli or Culbrea tribes, because the danger of hot tempers
spilling over into killings and blood feud is too great. The desire

12

to prove themselves against the ‘old enemy’ means many raid
without permission. Common ‘acceptable’ targets for a raid are
the Dolutha, Greenhaft, and Goodhaven clans of the Cinsina,
the Torkani clans of Goodfarm Vale — the Godori, Erlending,
and Siganti — or Dinacoli clans such as the Emerald Sword,
Fox or Rain Blossom.
When the Red Cow raids Dinacoli clans, such as the Emerald
Sword, they have to bring the stolen cattle back across the Creek.
One option is to swim. Cattle are better swimmers than horses,
though they may need switching to enter the cold water, but
there is always a risk that some will drown if the river is high or
fierce. The cattle may also end up dispersed on the far shore and
need rounding up. Getting the raiders across may prove more
difficult. Mounted raiders can rely on their horses to swim, and
just need to stay horsed. Raiders on foot may be able to hang
on to cattle or horses to help swim across. (If the PC has no
other Ability, use their Red Cow Clan keyword to cross a river).
Swimmers are vulnerable to javelins, bows, or slings if pursuit is
close. If no one wants to risk swimming across then the cattle
need to be driven down to Dangerford to cross there. This has
its own dangers because the Red Cow raiders have to travel
further in enemy territory, allowing pursuit a chance to catch
up. The Dolutha will usually demand a gift, in the form of some
of the stolen cattle, to allow passage back to Red Cow lands.
Over the years, Red Cow raiders have fought famous duels at Isle
Dangerous against Dinacoli pursuers who caught them before
they could cross.
Isle Dangerous’ reputation for conflict comes not just from
the duels there.

EMISSARIES
BEGINS WITH
Begin in the chieftain’s hall. For routine diplomatic journeys,
only Broddi may be there. For important missions of state, the
entire ring might be present. Broddi will impress upon the PCs
the importance of their role as ambassadors of the clan and how
the honor of the Red Cow clan travels with them. If Broddi is
dispatching the emissaries as a response to a crisis, he and the
ring will stress the importance of the mission and how the hopes
and prayers of the clan go with them.

CAST
Broddi Strong-Kin, Darna Longcoat, Salissa Three-Husbands,
Kullina the Fat, Farandar Orendalsson, Ivar Quickstep, Hingot
Twice-Outlawed, Fedarkos Many-Breath, Jost Bronze-Side,
Edrath the Wise, Parutan Redgold, Kulbrast Offirson, Duruvan
the Fat, Jomes Hostralos, Ivartha the Skinner

SITUATION
Diplomacy between clans occurs through personal contact and
requires sending emissaries.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

Presenting gifts is an essential part of sending an emissary, and
a diplomatic mission arriving without gifts suitable to a chieftain
or king insults their host. The gift is payment in advance for the
counter-gift of the service you want, now or at some time in the
future from the other clan. Suitable gifts might include: a fine
bull; a dozen cows; a ram and two dozen ewes; a pair of horses; a
sword or helmet; torcs and rings; fine decorated pottery; gold or
silver cups and bowls; amphorae of wine or oil; jugs of mead; jars
of barley; glassware, broaches, and exotic goods such as spices
and silks. Portable goods may be packed onto mules, or in an oxcart. Because an emissary carries wealth, Broddi will send thanes
to guard it from bandits on the road.
The emissaries expect to be shown suitable hospitality. A
visit from the neighbors is an important chance to impress, the
chieftain and his ring wear their gold and silver, and the thanes
burnish their swords and armor. Nothing says, “We are rich
and you should respect us!” like a lavish feast, even if you can
barely afford it. By contrast, offering poor hospitality insults the
emissaries or simply shows your poverty and weakness.
To cement a relationship or agreement, the chieftain will gift
the emissaries’ clan in return, and the thanes must guard the
treasure back to their own lands to present to their chieftain.
There can be a number of motivations behind a diplomatic
mission between clans or tribes. Under the HeroQuest Glorantha
community rules, a diplomatic mission is an ideal way to bolster
a community’s Resources following a Resource Crisis (see
HeroQuest Glorantha).

She may ask the Red Cow to send people or gifts to join on her
these missions.

HONORING THE GODS
The Red Cow may also send emissaries to the most important
temples of Sartar. Often this is simply to honor the gods, and
ensure their continued favor; perhaps the Red Cow have had
good rains, or birthed may calves and seek to thank Orlanth or
Ernalda for their good fortune. Ashart Dusk-Eater or Darna
Longcoat accompany these embassies and their gifts for the
priests and priestesses.
Larnste’s Table (page XX), Old Wind (Sartar Companion page
74) and Greenstone (Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes page 114 & 312)
are the main destinations for these emissaries, but sometimes the
clan sends to the Jonstown Library (Sartar Companion page 23)
and the House of Peace (Sartar Companion page 21) or even
further afield to Kero Fin (Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes page 115).

MAKING ALLIES
This is often easier than making friends. Emissaries need to find
mutual interests and common positions between the Red Cow
and the other clan.

TURNING ALLIES TO FRIENDS

Friendships between clans can fray without regular renewal.
Sometimes they need bolstering because of accidents or misunderstandings that threaten them, such as a cattle raid. Sometimes
the other clan is in trouble from strangers, Chaos, disease, or
foreigners, and needs help. Perhaps they want someone to help
raid their enemies, perhaps someone to help defend them against
monsters. Sometimes they have something to celebrate such as an
important marriage between your two clans and want you along.

The Red Cow’s allies will side with them against a mutual foe.
However, friends owe a debt to the Red Cow that must be repaid
even if there is little mutual benefit. Because friends are better than
allies, Broddi works hard to try to win more friends for the Red
Cow. He sends emissaries with gifts to allies hoping to win them
with wealth or offers of service. Winning friends is challenging;
you must persuade another clan to give you their backing, right
or wrong. You must also convince them that you will do the same
for them. Personal sacrifice or risk on the part of the emissaries to
solve an ally’s problems without asking for any reward is a good
way to win friends. If Broddi sends emissaries to an ally, it may
be that he knows that they are in trouble and asks the PCs to help
solve the issue as a sure route to friendship.

HELP FROM FRIENDS

APPEASING ENEMIES

Friendship extends in both directions. Gifts are still required, but
this time the gift is presented in the hope of bringing a greater one
in return. Friends rarely turn you down, they would no longer
be friends if they did, but the amount of help they send varies
according to what they have to lose or gain. Whatever the reason
the stakes may be high. Calling in favors from friends too often
risks exhausting your friendship, so the ring will only send you
if the clan is in trouble.

The hardest mission of any emissary is to try to overturn generations of enmity, and broker improved relations with your enemies.

CONNECTED EPISODES

HELP FROM ALLIES

ON THE ROAD

BOLSTERING FRIENDS

You should be able to rely on your allies to help when outside
forces threaten mutual interests. Unlike your friends you may have
to convince them that such shared interests really are at stake, and
that they will benefit from combined effort.

HONORING CHOSEN LEADERS
Queen Ivartha represents the Cinsina tribe in affairs at Jonstown
with the Confederation, or at Boldhome with Prince Temertain.

Feud, Peace Weaving, Trade, War

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS
Bandits

Bandits attack the emissaries trying to steal the treasures they
carry with them. They attack from ambush, when the emissaries’
caravan passes through a wood, crosses a ford, travels down a
narrow valley. After a volley of arrows and javelins, the bandits
charge from cover.

Playing the Game

13

DOLUTHA

MEET THE NEIGHBORS
Visiting

Look for conflicts between the PCs’ personal motivations and
the needs of the clan. Can they put aside personal feelings or
desires to negotiate on the clan’s behalf? Perhaps one of the PCs
had an uncle killed by the Goodhaven, but Broddi asks him to
pursue an alliance with the Goodhaven on the Red Cow’s behalf.
Perhaps one of the PCs hates the Empire, but Broddi asks him
to seek help from Jomes for the failed harvest.
Some possible complications:
• A faction of the clan dislikes the emissaries’ presence. They
believe the Red Cow have brought their clan nothing but
trouble. “No gifts are worth the pain and suffering you have
led our clan into.” They speak out against alliance, and publicly doubt the character and achievements of the emissaries.
• At an enemy clan, or any other clan the Red Cow has
feuded with, these folks may bear a grudge based on old
killings. “How can you negotiate with the clan of my
father’s killers?” Women marry across clans so it is possible
that even in an allied or friendly clan, someone had a blood
relation killed in a feud with the Red Cow. Perhaps one of
the emissaries is the killer and the dissenter’s rage is directed
straight at them.
• The emissaries arrive to find that their enemies are there as
well, and seeking help against the Red Cow! This is likely
to be the Emerald Sword clan or the Two-Pine. It might
even be that Broddi has sent his emissaries to undermine
Two-Pine or Emerald Sword clan attempts to seek alliances
or friends. The presence of Telmori emissaries would be
a huge shock and send ripples throughout the Jonstown
Confederation. Who would dare make friends with the
wolfmen? Emissaries from foul King Brangbane are only
likely in secret and suggests something is terribly wrong.
Will the Red Cow emissaries discover and expose such an
evil alliance?
• The Lunar Empire has arrived at the same time as the PCs.
It might be Lunar missionaries looking to spread the word
or the army, foraging for supplies, or searching for rebels. It
might be Lunar tax collectors, come to bleed the clan dry.
The Empire’s demands might be so great that they quash
any chance of the emissaries negotiating help for their clan.

PLAY OF THE GAME

EMERALD SWORD
Duruvan the Fat and Broddi Strong-Kin have kept the peace
between their two clans, and Broddi regularly sends emissaries to
prevent a return to former hostilities. The two clans still have a
history of generations of sleights both real and imagined. Rostakus
Twice-Outlawed seeks to oppose any peace, and tries to rile all
the Red Cow emissaries. However, a concerted effort could defuse
tension and move the normal relation from hostility and suspicion
to tolerance. With time, acceptance might even be possible, though
the Hero Wars might mean no one has time.

ERLENDING
Good Rain Hill lies in the clan’s territory and the Red Cow works
with them to keep it open for clandestine worship. Ashart DuskEater is often in Erlending lands. The two clans engage in shared
Orlanth worship, which makes their ceremonies more effective.
This can bolster the Red Cow’s community Magic Resource rating.
Like all Torkani clans the Erlendings suffer from being neighbors
of the Telmori, and they would provide aid to the Red Cow against
the Telmori. Turning the Erlending into friends would require the
Red Cow to become involved with the Erlending’s continued conflict with their northern neighbors the Bachad tribe. The Bachad
are the losers in a conflict with Harvar Ironfist and now pressing
on their southern neighbors. The Erlending have suffered most
from continued raids from Bachad clans trying to restore their
fortunes. The Red Cow could simply send thanes to help in the
fight, or they might be able to buy off the Bachad with tribute,
giving the Erlending breathing room.

FRITHAN
Hingot Twice-Outlawed is happy to send Frithan warriors to help the
Red Cow in times of conflict, especially if they are fighting Telmori,
Dinacoli or Culbrea. His clan needs food to survive each winter and
he will want to exact a heavy price in cattle and barley for his aid.
He will be insulted if the Red Cow try to lower the price too much.

GREENHAFT

A common reason to run an emissaries episode is to bolster the
clan’s Resources following the PCs actions or a Background
Event (HeroQuest Glorantha). Sending emissaries to neighboring
clans is especially appropriate if a Resource Crisis develops from
the change in Resources.

BLUEBERRY
If you want help for a feud with the Two-Pine then the Blueberry
may be cautious, fearing being drawn into a fight with their
neighbors too.

14

Ivar Quickstep has ambitions for the kingship and will only help
the Red Cow in return for their support in ousting Queen Ivartha
and placing him on the throne instead. If he thinks the Red Cow is
desperate, he might press them to force their friends, the Blueberry,
Frithan, and Underwillow, to support him too. It’s unlikely that
Broddi could or would agree, but if the clan’s survival hinged on
Dolutha support, he might have to try.

The Greenhaft have grown wealthy on trade. If the Red Cow suffers
a Wealth Resource Crisis, Broddi might seek a loan from them to
bolster the community’s Wealth Resource. A resurgent Two-Pine
demanding the Fired Thatch Tribute could lead to the Greenhaft
seeking alliance. Anxious not to pay the Two-Pine, Jost might see
value in joining with the other ‘victims’: Blueberry, Goodhaven,
and Red Cow in a pact of mutual defense.

TOENA
The clan shares an enmity with the Red Cow for the Telmori
and the two often ally against the wolfmen. The Cinsina and

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

the Aranwyth both have a traditional enmity with
the Culbrea, and their mutual interest extends to
feuds and raids against the men of Lorthing Vale.
The Red Cow also trade with the Toena for horses
as the Elmal worshippers there breed some of the
finest in Dragon Pass outside Runegate. The Red
Cow tend to have better relations with the horse
breeders there than in the Dolutha clan. Trouble
sometimes flares between Dolutha and Red Cow
buyers at the Toena Fort horse markets.
The Toena suffer from the Animal Nomads of
Prax. The nomad raiders gather at Jaldon’s Rest from
time to time, seeking slaves, metal, and to fulfill the
sacred duty of killing horses. If the Culbrea grew
dominant again, it might be possible to create a
friendship with the Toena by helping defend them
against newly aggressive Culbrea clans after the
Culbrea resurgence in 1622.

TWO-PINE
The clan has ritual reasons for conflict with the
Red Cow. The Two-Pine’s magic depends on their
collecting tributes — amongst them the Red Cow
Tribute. The surest way to improve relations with
the Two-Pine would be for the Red Cow to pay the
tribute. Broddi might try to pay tribute to the TwoPine but only if the clan risked losing more from
conflict with them than he would paying. Despite
this, Isbarnessa Boarscar wants peace and would
welcome the emissaries of the Red Cow, believing
that dialog can prevent further feuds.

UNDERWILLOW
Fedarkos Many-Breath has plenty of reasons to welcome the Red Cow. His clan is poor and always in
need of a handout from their richer friends. When
they do acquire anything the Malani are inclined
to raid and take it, so the Underwillow always need
thanes to help fight off their Malani neighbors, or
simply get their belongings back. The Underwillow
clan controls access to Larnste’s Table and the Orlanth
temple there. The Red Cow can bolster their Magic
Resource rating by sacrificing to Orlanth at the Table.
Of course, such an act is illegal in occupied Sartar.

WULFSLAND
As well as being a Field Commander, Jomes is the
Red Cow’s neighbor and it is important to Broddi
that they get on. The shared hatred of the Telmori
gives an obvious reason for alliance, but cattle raids
can cause trouble with the authorities, as can disputes
over fishing rights along the Heort Creek. Jomes is
aware of the need to win ‘hearts and minds’, but
takes an attitude of ‘speak softly but carry a big stick.’
Give the PCs access to clan Resources when they
act as emissaries, without requiring a roll. The exact

Resource might vary. Wealth is a good catchall as
the emissaries will undoubtedly take gifts with
them, but Peace may be more appropriate if the
emissaries are trying to appease angry neighbors,
or beg for help with Wealth from friends. War
might also be appropriate if they are demanding
tribute to bolster Wealth by intimidating others.
Throw in complications in the form of trouble
for the clan the PCs are visiting. Tailor the threat to
the PCs’ skills. If bold warriors dominate the PCs
perhaps the neighbors, or someone more exotic
like trolls, dinosaurs, or dragonewts, are raiding the
other clan. Can the PCs help to defeat them? If the
healers dominate the PCs, perhaps the other clan
is suffering from a plague. Whatever the option,
create the possibility that the PCs have some way
to influence the other clan through their strengths.
The best options involve choices. If the Red Cow
chooses to help the clan against their dragonewt
enemies, the Red Cow acquires the alliance of the
clan at the expense of enmity with dragonewts.
You don’t always need to think of external
problems. No clan is truly unified and the PCs
may find they have supporters and enemies in any
clan they negotiate with. Play up these differences
as the PCs make choices and give them friends and
enemies. Next time the PCs come, they may regret
taking sides the last time if their old allies do not
support their new request.

TRAVELING IN
SARTAR
In many games, the
PCs will want to travel
out of the Red Cow
clan lands, perhaps as
emissaries to another
clan, perhaps to visit
Jonstown or Boldhome.
We do not cover road
encounters here,
however the Sartar
Companion has an
extensive Encounters
section, which Game
Masters can use
to create suitable
encounters on long
journeys.

FEAST
BEGINS WITH
You are not sure whether it was the bowls of wine,
or the cups of cider or mead that made you dizzy,
but you have to accept that you are feeling slightly
drunk. You are not even sure you like puppeteers
— you usually argue the merits of the skalds —
but you found yourself laughing along as you
savored the last morsels of your honey cake. And
now you even find yourself thumping your fist on
the table in approval of the fire-swallower.

CAST
Broddi Strong-Kin, Kangharl Black-Brow

SITUATION
The Orlanthi feast for many reasons: as a display
of wealth and power — only the rich have surplus
food and drink — to show hospitality to guests and
welcome them into the home, to cement friendships
and alliances, to seal trade deals, to celebrate a

Playing the Game

15

marriage or victory in battle, to mourn defeat or the dead. The
end of Earth Season and the beginning of Storm Season are the
most common times for feasting — the harvest and slaughter of
those animals that cannot be kept through the winter means there
is excess food available. Many Orlanthi marry at this time for that
reason. Most Holy Days are often feast days — the gods only
demand the portion of the sacrifice people cannot eat is burnt on
their altars, so the remainder goes to their worshippers.
A feast is a time to indulge in fine food and drink. Few people
eat beef, venison, wild boar, or horse meat outside of Holy Days
or feasts, eating pork, fish, or lamb for the remainder of the year.
Most drink ale or buttermilk during the year, brewed at home,
but at a feast there may be wine, cider, or mead as well. There
may be delicacies too, such as honey-soaked pastries, pear or apple
crumble, small birds, sweet oatcakes, pancakes with honey, cream
and fruit, mature cheeses, and shortbread.
A feast tends to last ‘all day’ and some are longer. People go
to enjoy themselves and, in addition to food and drink, expect
entertainment. The chieftain and the thanes may have the
clan’s skald attend, but carls often just have the more humble
entertainment — a puppeteer or juggler, a dancer, storyteller,
acrobat, or singer.
Etiquette is important, from who sits on the high table with
the host to who sits closest to the door, who gets the prime cuts of
meat and who takes the burnt edges, who washes first in the bowl
provided, and who has the bowl after everyone else has performed
their ablutions. Status is carefully monitored and ‘getting it wrong’
can give offense. Guests are expected to remain at table until all the
food is eaten, and to refuse the host’s food is an insult.

A Feast can be used to restore the Morale Resource when it
has fallen. If one part of the clan is the source of discontent —
the farmers feeling the pressure of conflict, the housecarls feeling
neglected — a feast for that group can help the ring make them
feel valued again. Of course, unless an individual steps forward,
the clan is often using its Wealth Resource to furnish the feast,
with the risk that Resource itself becomes depleted.

CONNECTED EPISODES
Emissaries, Trade, Peace Weaving

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS
THE FEAST
Marriage

A marriage is a common reason for a feast, and many marriages
take place in the autumn months when there is surplus food
for feasting. The PCs might have been involved in Emissaries
episodes, to make the match in the first place, or negotiate
the bride price and dowry. If so, they will be honored guests.
Otherwise, they might well be close family, or someone the host
simply wants to impress with his wealth.
The bride’s family will also be in attendance. If the bride’s clan
is friendly to the Red Cow then it will be difficult to cause real
offense, but if a fist-fight breaks out the matter may have to be
settled in the courts — with compensation awarded — to ensure
the clans preserve their friendship. If the bride’s clan comes from

Religious festivals are the major feast days in the Orlanthi calendar, for the gods leave the food from the sacrifices to the worshippers

16

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

a clan that the Red Cow is neutral to, then the dangers of a
misunderstanding are increased, and the consequences could
be worse, with Emissaries dispatched to prevent any feud and
possible court cases. If the marriage is to a hostile clan, perhaps
to cement a peace treaty to end a feud, the entire evening will be
fraught — the host might even try to limit the alcohol flowing
— as each side glares over its food at the other, and the wrong
choice of tale by the skald or puppeteer could spark conflict.
Funeral

When a person dies, their corpse is laid in state in his or her
home. The hearth fire is extinguished, and for a week anyone
can view them to pay their last respects. The person’s soul takes
a week to reach the Court of Silence. On the eighth day, the
family burns a man’s body on a pyre or a woman’s body in a
funerary oven. After a man’s ashes blow away on the winds, the
relatives place the bones and other remains inside an urn. All of a
woman’s remains go into an urn. The funerary urns are buried in
the urnfield. The family always includes grave goods in the rites.
Once a person has joined the ancestors, their kin hold a feast
to celebrate their life. If they were important the clan’s leaders
may come, perhaps even the tribal queen herself. People praise
the dead person’s life, telling tales of their deeds great or small. It
is wrong to speak badly of the dead at a funeral.
Great Men or Women

Great men or women are generous gift-givers, and one gift is
a feast. To ensure continued support from their ‘sworn men’
leaders will often invite them to a feast, to fill their bellies with
beef and wine and remind them of the Orlanthi obligation to
‘obey chosen leaders.’
Of course, sometimes such a feast is a sign that the leader
is about to make a political play for office, or defy the chieftain
or inner ring, and wants to know that he or she has support
to do so. Other times the chieftain or the ring feels that their
support is ebbing and they feast their supporters to ensure their
continued loyalty.
If a leader’s authority is diminishing there might be an
outburst at the feast, as too much drink encourages someone to
tell the leader exactly what they, or the clan, think of them.

PLAY OF THE GAME
More than anything a feast is a role-playing opportunity. Early
on it might be the chance for the PCs to meet the chieftain or
the Rivals and negotiate for their support. Later on it might be
the chance for the PCs to determine their support. If the PCs
are carousing with people from outside the clan, it may be a
minefield of social niceties to endure, without causing offense.
A feast may be used to lessen a Resource Crisis in Morale or
Peace. In the former case, leaders feast the troubled members of
the clan, to win them back on side. In the latter case, the clan
entertains its rivals or enemies, in order to bring peace.
Of course it is always possible the PCs are guests of another
clan for a feast — perhaps a Red Cow daughter is being married
off, or perhaps another clan seeks to improve its relationship
with the Red Cow.

FEUD
BEGINS WITH
When people seek a feud against another clan, they first take
their complaints to Broddi Strong-Kin, who decides if it warrants
clan consideration. If so, he sets a date for the clan ring and
bloodline elders to meet, typically the next clan Holy Day. The
clan leaders make sacrifices to seek ancestral approval and divine
outlooks. Plaintiffs state their case before the chieftain and ring.
Discussions are held, and Broddi decides.
If a feud is declared, Broddi Strong-Kin performs a short
ritual called “Passing the Red Collar.” The elders, warriors, and
other interested parties wear the collar to make their vows. The
chief priest sacrifices immature cocks to alert the wyter, Orlanth,
and Ernalda. The clan then sends a messenger to tell the tribal
king(s), another to Issaries (whose herald bears word to the
enemy), and others to warn all clan members.

CAST
Broddi Strong-Kin, Darna Longcoat, Salissa Three-Husbands,
Kullina the Fat, Farandar Orendalsson, Borngold ManyBrothers, Frekor Deep-Woods, Jaranil the Thunder, Ortossi
Ketilsson, Jarstak Bristle-Beard, Lhankpentos the Blind,
Jarkorl Snow-Whiskers, Enerin Bristle-Beard, Tarkalus BiggerBoat, Gringle Harvest-King, Kangharl Black-Brow, Branduan
Unmatched

SITUATION
The Orlanthi legal system specifies amounts, wergild, that can
be paid to compensate for injury or death. No one is required to
follow those rules, however, for ‘Violence is always an option.’
Sometimes compensation cannot placate angry victims and their
kin, and there is a call for blood vengeance.
A blood feud is an act of justice upheld by the laws and
actions of Orlanth. If one clan hurts another, they must
exact the same price to maintain cosmic order and balance.
Regrettably, the opponents usually differ on the value of their
dead kinsmen. As they become more enraged by the deaths of
their friends and relatives, violence becomes ever greater and
harder to escape.
Reasons for starting a formal feud depend upon each clan’s
concept of honor. Some are touchy, and anything that offends
them offends their honor. Other clans care only about a few
important issues, things that wound their Orlanthi virtues.
However, a crime that goes unpunished by the perpetrator’s
clan is always grounds for a blood feud, especially when it is
serious.

CONNECTED EPISODES
Emissaries, Peace Weaving, War

Playing the Game

17

pressure to organize a party to hunt them down one-by-one.
If Broddi fails to react, then a thane is likely to organize a
raid without permission. The burning may mean he draws on
raiders from the Blueberry, Frithan, or Underwillow clans as
well, outraged by the loss of their kin.
Dawn Raid

Just before dawn, the village where the PCs are staying comes
under attack. The headman is first to wake, alerted by the
village’s alynxes. As he steps past hissing alynxes and out of the
hall door to investigate, arrows strike him. Raising his horn to
his lips, he is able to sound the alarm before slumping to the
ground. Warriors from the feuding clan push past him and into
the doorway to fall upon their unprepared foes.
Duel

Challenging a killer to a duel is one way to try to gain blood
vengeance. Refusing a duel leads to the accusation of cowardice,
a terrible stain on any Orlanthi’s honor (Sartar: Kingdom of
Heroes page 216). A PC might be asked by another member
of the clan to fight in his or her stead. The duel need not be
between individuals, two groups can agree to meet, but the
numbers should be even. Isle Dangerous is a traditional dueling
ground in the area and a PC might issue or receive a summons
to meet at Isle Dangerous on a given date.
Forbidden Love

Sometimes, wergild is not enough and only blood vengeance will
appease the dead

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS
Feuds are killing and counter-killing, so these scenes are not
placed in any given act and are just examples of the kind of thing
that happens in a feud.

THE FEUD
Ambush

A thane recruits the PCs to ambush members of the enemy clan. He
picks an ambush site where he and the PCs can wait in concealment
and spring the trap, such as woods, a ford or river ferry, or a narrow
valley. Sometimes the ambush is not even in the enemy clan’s lands
but on their route to and from market, or visiting allies.
Alternatively, raiders from the feuding clan might ambush
one or two of the PCs.
Burners

The feuding clan leads a raid on a Red Cow village off-stage,
perhaps one to which the PCs have a connection. The raiders
pen everyone inside the village’s main hall, and then burn
it, killing everyone inside, including women and children.
Everyone calls for revenge against the burners and there is

18

Two young people fall in love, but they are on either side of the
feud. This scene works best if a PC has a relationship to one of
the two lovers. Of course, their families, bloodlines, and leaders
object; this relationship is impossible while there is a feud. There
may be pressure on one of the lovers to join a raiding party
against the enemy clan; the end of a feud is often sealed with a
marriage, but even this might be complicated if the boy has been
involved in the killing.
Goading

A Morale Resource Crisis during a feud (HeroQuest Glorantha)
may well result in the clan’s women goading the men to act
against the clan’s enemies. Widows tear out their hair and rend
their flesh, old men sulk by the fire and refuse to eat. They
question the honor and courage of the PCs because they do not
act to ‘do what is right’ and avenge their kinsmen.
Traveling

Anyone traveling outside the clan lands during a feud is at risk,
especially if plundering a trade caravan disrupts the other clan’s
economy.
Raid

A Red Cow thane is gathering men to raid the enemy clan.
He seeks to exact blood vengeance for the death of close kin,
goaded by the victim’s grieving relatives for his inaction. He
approaches the PCs to join him. After sacrificing to Orlanth
or Humakt, the raiding band sets out at night to arrive at
an enemy clan’s stead at dawn. Small bands of raiders prefer
isolated steads because there are fewer people to overcome, but

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

larger bands may attack villages. At first light, they descend on
the settlement, kicking down doors to kill until the blood price
is paid. This is not war but killing. If the raiders are lucky, the
surprised villagers have little ability to put up resistance and
they can complete their grisly task and flee back to their own
lands, to swear to the killings in front of a juror, lest they be
accused of secret murder.
Raiders avoid targeting women, because their birth clans
may be drawn into the feud or children, who are innocent
of the feud. Rage can overcome moral sense and sometimes
anyone is potentially a victim. Burning a longhouse, by firing
its thatch, makes killing those inside easy as they boil out of the
door coughing with smoke. However, it is indiscriminate and
widens the feud.
Carrying off plunder is another way to “redress the balance”
and looting is common on raids. The raiders pay the booty to their
chieftain who takes some to recompense the clan for its losses in
the feud and divides the remainder up amongst the raiders.

PLAY OF THE GAME
The most likely clans for a feud are the Red Cow’s enemies, the
Two-Pine clan of the Culbrea tribe and the Emerald Sword clan
of the Dinacoli. There is already a history of blood between these
two clans, old slights that wergild has never settled. New blood
spilled or insults are unlikely to be defrayed with peacemaking
efforts and turns more quickly to war.
When playing out an Orlanthi blood feud, take inspiration
from the Icelandic sagas, particularly Njal’s Saga. The feuds of
the saga are both heroic and tragic. Tragic, because the spiral of
violence worsens with each new killing, heroic because of the
actions by characters to avenge the death of loved ones, often
against overwhelming odds.
Keep a running total of the wergild for killings and injuries
for each side. You can figure injuries at about a tenth of wergild
for hurt, and half of wergild for injured. Participants from both
sides swear as to their recollection of those injuries to a local
juror as soon as possible following the event. Of course, people
tend to remember the injuries they suffered but forget those that
they inflicted, so both sides rarely agree. Now, the side owed
the most compensation needs to reclaim that in blood debt.
The ancestors, honor, and widows and orphans call for raids to
redress the balance. Of course, it is hard to be exact when killing
and counter-violence usually end up with the other side in blood
debt to the raiders. This is the violent spiral of a feud.
When clans begin to raid each other, they threaten the stability
of the region. A chieftain may dispatch emissaries to call in help
from friends. They promise plunder from the enemy clan’s villages
as a reward. A hard-pressed clan may hire its friends to bolster
the defense of its clan lands. Because the involvement of these
mercenaries risks drawing their clans into a blood feud, tribes can
find themselves drawn into a conflict. At this point the tribal kings
become involved, and the Empire begins to take notice.
Despite the tragic nature of the feud, there are opportunities
for the PCs to be heroes. Heroism comes from facing
overwhelming odds to obtain justice. This is especially true when
the PCs opponents are powerful or well protected.

WAR
BEGINS WITH
A rider approaches the PCs from Red Cow Fort. The rider carries
a black fletched arrow in his hand. He dismounts quickly and
proceeds to gather the thanes. The meaning of the “Black Arrow”
is clear — the Red Cow is marching to war.

CAST
Broddi Strong-Kin, Jaranil the Thunder, Kernalda OtherWays, Ortossi Ketilsson, Aethelric the Girl, Orkarl Iron-Beard,
Kangharl Black-Brow

SITUATION
If the chieftain intends to send the thanes to war, he summons
them by sending out the Black Arrow. This tells the gods, the
wyter, and the ancestors of the clan’s intent, and so offers magical
benefit for the participants. The chieftain may lead the assembled
warband, but usually he delegates it to the most experienced of
his housecarls, and remains behind to defend the clan whilst its
warriors are away.
If the clan ring decides that the threat is universal then the
ring can elect to summon the whole clan to war using Vingkot’s
Muster. The ring sends out the Four Torches that burn Blue,
Yellow, Black, and Red — for the four enemy elements. This is
the summons for the clan’s militia — the fyrd — to muster at
a well-known meeting point. It is enough for the riders to pass
a village for men to feel the summons. It is possible to refuse
— ‘no one can make you do anything’ — but failing to fulfill
obligations to the clan could result in fines or outlawry.
Orlanthi men perform war dances before and after raiding.
They dance to the sound of flutes and pipes, leaping into the
air and clashing swords, or spears and shields as though striking
each other, dancing naked save from woad, armbands, torcs,
and sacred masks. The masks depict the Thunder Brothers, the
thanes of Orlanth’s household. The wearing of masks denotes
the fighters intend to step outside the limits of normal society
in which killing is wrong. For this they assume the personas of
the Thunder Brothers. When men return from war they perform
dances again, this time to unmask themselves and symbolically
return to society.
Humakti do not don masks, for they are outside society
anyway and killing is normal for them. They do not choose to
hide behind masks when doing “god’s work.”
The Orlanthi have different rules of war for different
opponents. There is no war amongst kin and so people often say
that conflict is settled by Barntar’s Rules — a fistfight. Death is
not expected, knock is expected for knock, and the victor should
gift the loser ale and a handshake. When clans fight other clans,
they do so by Orlanth’s Rules. These allow killing, but a man
must announce whom he has killed so that the kinfolk of the
deceased can seek compensation — to do otherwise is secret
murder. Similarly, a man does not commit rape, spread disease,

Playing the Game

19

consort with Chaos, desecrate Orlanthi holy places, or kill a king.
Orlanth’s Rules do not exempt a man from the normal rules of
society. Against foreigners, Orlanthi make war with Humakt’s
Rules. The Orlanthi recognize that foreigners are outside the law
and take a ‘do it to them before they do it to us’ attitude toward
such conflicts. Against such opponents, there are no rules, and
any actions are acceptable.
War occurs during Fire Season, because farms require less
hands and the roads are fit for travel. War needs to end by Earth
Season if the harvest is to be brought in; otherwise, a clan may
not survive winter.
As always, no important activity begins without sacrifice to
the gods. The chieftain sacrifices a bull, ram, or stallion for aid
in war. A sacrifice made to Orlanth aids in outmaneuvering
the enemy, ambushing the enemy, or fighting on advantageous
ground; a sacrifice made to Humakt aids in killing the enemy.
Sacrifices to Orlanth allow use of the community’s War Resource
rating in leading the warband; sacrifices to Humakt allow use of
the community’s War Resource rating to kill their enemies.

CONNECTED EPISODES
Peace Weaving

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS
THE FACE OF BATTLE

When poets sing of the conflicts between clans, they sing of
noble duels between champions, heroic warriors trying to break
the enemy line, and the slaughter and confusion of battle once
the enemy breaks. The harsh reality of war is often unlike this —
it’s mud, fear, piss, blood, shit, and a spear in the back when you
are issuing a bloody challenge to someone else.
The Orlanthi are experts in unconventional warfare and
maneuver: the ambush, the raid, and the hit-and–run attack.
These are messy inelegant affairs where everyone has but one
simple thought — to survive to fight another day, and only the
foolish dream of glory.
All the same, when two clans’ warbands meet in the field,
there can be a rhythm to the proceedings.
When both sides are drawn up, the brave or foolish from each
side may have the courage to step from the lines and boast of their
prowess and the men they have bested in single combat crying out:
‘Who will fight me?’ It may be the chieftain, his housecarl, or just
a thane or carl seeking to prove himself. The opposing sides clash
spear and shield to cheer their champions on.
Sometimes the battle is decided there and then, because the
opposing sides discover that they do not have the stomach to
take it further when they see their champion lose.
If the champion is a PC then the Consequences of Defeat
or Benefit of Victory become a morale bonus to his side in the
battle too. On a Complete Victory or Defeat, the losing side
loses heart and quits the battle.
If everyone is still ready to fight the better fighters on each
side, such as thanes and housecarls, may try to break the enemy
line. Behind them, the militia stands in a shield wall, each man
overlapping his shield to cover the man to his left.

20

THE THUNDER SHOUT
The Orlanthi often perform the Thunder Shout before
charging. The shout begins as a low rumble, as of distant thunder, growing louder to end with the clap of
the Lightning Strike. Often the fighters make this noise
against the back of their shields so that it reverberates.
The goal is both to summon men’s courage for battle
and to frighten your opponent. If your Thunder Shout
is louder, then the thunder is strong in your souls and
you will win the day.

These fighters skirmish forward, sometimes mounted, using
movement magic, or taking to the air, to throw javelins into the
enemy militia in the hope of disrupting the enemy line. Other
fighters may advance to meet these skirmishers, resulting in a
series of running battles. Once one side has the advantage in
these battles, they can assault the opposing line with javelins,
slings, and thrown axes, unhindered — hoping to disrupt or
break the enemy’s line. The Red Cow often uses mounted thanes,
paired with a foot soldier, in this stage of the conflict because
they can move quickly across the battlefield.
Finally, once the line is broken, the victorious side charges
forward to press their advantage.
Of course, sometimes a canny warband leader decides to skip
the preliminaries and just charge the opposing line from the start,
hoping to catch his enemy off-guard. Often the leader relies on
Movement magic to help his men close the distance quickly.
The battle then turns into a grind, of pushing, shoving,
stabbing, and killing. Shields splinter, spear shafts snap, helmets
and armor fail and swords bend, swords and spears stab and axes
hack, men slip and slide, and those who fall are trampled into
the mud. The press of bodies may last some time; men may step
out of the first rank to take a skin of wine, allowing others to take
their place. Eventually one side or the other falters and breaks.
This is when most casualties happen, as one side turns to run
from the battle. If the other side pursues it is to kill, or take
hostages to ransom back later. If they do not pursue it is often to
loot a nearby village or the corpses of the fallen.
War between tribes or nations is altogether different. Most
of it is boredom, hunger and cold, marching between one place
and another. Some of it is maneuver to horns on a battlefield,
packed in with your kinfolk. The rest is terror as you charge or are
charged by some stranger or a foreigner with weird magic, armor
and weapons. At that point it’s the messy press of bodies again, and
the prayers to Orlanth for survival or Humakt for killing.

PLAY OF THE GAME
A clan fallen on hard times might seek to plunder their enemies,
carrying off livestock, grain, and beer to see them through
difficult times. A clan that seeks over-lordship of its enemies
might want to defeat the enemy thanes in battle, capture
hostages, and then demand tribute from the conquered clan
to return their loved ones and leave them in peace. A clan that

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

story itself. The practical reality is
that running a skirmish is outside the
scope of a HeroQuest Glorantha game.

PEACE
WEAVING
BEGINS WITH

Sacrifices to Orlanth before battle bring success in manoeuvres
has been fighting a bitter feud may be intent on killing their
enemies, driving them from their homes, and burning their
halls to the ground.
There are two main variables in running a battle: what is the
outcome, and what happens to the PCs.
If a player is in charge of the battle, then winning is a contest.
Commonly this is a Simple Contest using an appropriate
Ability from the commander. The results of this battle become a
situational bonus to the PCs in the upcoming battle.
If no player is in command of the battle, do not bother rolling
— decide the outcome creating the most drama and provide the
PCs with a matching situational bonus instead.
In both cases, you should weave a narrative of the ebb-andflow of the battle from this contest. If it warrants it you may
want to run a PC’s command as an Extended Contest and note
the back and forth of battle from the rounds of that contest.
Next, you need to decide the fate of the PCs in the battle.
This can be a Simple or an Extended Contest. We would suggest
using an Extended Contest when you have a feel for the ebb
and flow of the battle and feel happy narrating the outcome of
each round. Each round should represent a new development in
the phase of the battle instead of focusing on a blow within an
exchange. Outside a massed melee you probably narrate a round
as an attack by one-side or another, but in battle each round
summarizes a new phase of the engagement.
Gamers use the term ‘railroading’ to describe the Game Master
making PC choices meaningless, because they don’t affect the story.
There is a danger here that the PCs, told they cannot affect the
outcome of the battle, just role-play their part in it, feel that they
have been made ‘passengers’ on a story that they had no influence
over — why ask the players to take part if they cannot decide
the outcome. Our counterpoint is that we perceive the battle as
a backdrop, against which interesting stories can be told, not the

Broddi calls the PCs into the
chieftain’s hall. Members of the ring
may also be present, if the crisis
threatens the whole clan, seated on
benches either side of the chieftain’s
high seat. Broddi explains that the
conflict threatens the Red Cow
and needs to be stopped. He asks
the PCs to be his representatives in
bringing peace.

CAST
Broddi Strong-Kin, Darna Longcoat, Salissa Three-Husbands,
Kullina the Fat, Farandar Orendalsson, Borngold Many-Brothers,
Frekor Deep-Woods, Kernalda Other-Ways

SITUATION
Umath taught men that, ‘Violence is always an option’ and since
then there has been feuding and war. Ernalda taught the women
the proverb that, ‘There is always another way’ and since then
there has always been a path to peace too. When a clan feuds with
another, or finds itself in all-out war with its neighbors, society has
several ways to give peace a chance.
The Orlanthi legal system focuses on compensation. Every
man has his wergild, his price, according to his station, and a
clan wanting to avoid a feud pays blood money to the victim’s
clan. There is no question of proving guilt, clans admit to
killings because failure to do so is ‘secret murder’ a crime
denying the chance of compensation. Such crimes are taboo
and punishable by outlawry and death. It is possible to negotiate
the amount of compensation from the circumstances though,
and compensation may be applied to both sides in a fight on a
knock-for-knock basis.
• Law Courts: If the feuding clans can find a moot they
both attend, then there is a chance to bring a resolution
through the courts (see Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes, page
216). The lead juror, when two clans are feuding, will
likely be the lawspeaker of each clan, and the ring will
be the plaintiff who brings the case before the court. The
other two jurors are most likely local to families who have
suffered injury or deaths in the feud. However, everyone
gains from noted jurors speaking on behalf of the clan, so

Playing the Game

21

attempts may be made to persuade renowned jurors, even
from friendly clans, to attend the court.
If other clan is part of the Cinsina, then the clans go to the
tribal moot. If not, but the other clan is part of the Jonstown
Confederation, such as Two-Pine, they can go to the Jonstown
court. Otherwise, they must go to the Prince of Sartar.
Under Prince Temertain, the Lunar governor steers the
judgments made by this court, and tends to favor Lunar
friends over enemies. After Temertain dies, the governor
presides over the court directly and is even more prejudiced.
• Making Peace: If Orlanth’s Justice cannot provide fair dealing, another option is to ‘take it to the women.’ Ernalda’s
way of making peace is Orventili’s Peace Rug. Peace
Weaving involves the Ernaldan priestesses of the feuding
clans — the Peacekeepers.
The priestesses work together to weave a peace rug. The
rug includes Orventili’s face where the basket goes, spaces
for the two peacekeepers to sit and marked spaces for the
two plaintiffs to sit with their four supporters. The rug is
woven in the loom houses of each clan in turn, and the
Women’s Circle gathers to talk through the challenges to
peace within each clan. The weaving process pours the clan’s
energies for peace into the rug. It also allows the priestesses
to talk through ‘another way’ to violence for the two clans.
The women then whisper hints of the solution to their husbands, so that by the time everyone sits together a solution
acceptable to all is already in motion.
The priestesses take a vow of chastity and poverty to
reassure everyone that they have no favor or personal gain in
the negotiations.

22

The feuding parties agree to a meeting point with the
priestess, usually neutral ground somewhere between the two
clans. Then the clans begin to discuss settling their dispute.
• Arbitration: Sometimes clans know that they need to
end a feud, but cannot negotiate a solution through the
law courts or the women. In that case, both clans can
agree to have a neutral third-party arbitrate the dispute.
It is a significant honor to be asked to arbitrate a dispute,
only offered to those whose wisdom and knowledge of
the law is respected. This is rare and the decisions made
by arbitrators are widely remembered. The Red Cow
clan remembers how Sartar acted as an arbitrator in the
dispute with the Telmori.
The clans are bound to accept the decision of an arbitrator they choose, and will experience Divine Wrath if they
refuse to comply. It is also the responsibility of the arbitrator
to gather a posse and enforce his judgment if a clan refuses
to abide by it.
• Self-Judgment: The Orlanthi recognize self-judgment as an
honorable and generous act, a sign that the person is taking
responsibility for his actions. Orlanth did this when he
sought peace with the Evil Emperor. Self-judgment involves
giving your enemy the right to set the terms of peace; for the
judge to offer a fair settlement or for the supplicant to pay
brings honor to both individuals and clans. On the other
hand, refusing to grant self-judgment makes it clear that the
clan does not intend to settle the feud. Offering self-judgment and not honoring it brings terrible dishonor on the
individual and his clan.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

CONNECTED EPISODES

Because Orlanth favors the just, you should give a situational
bonus to any PCs involved in a duel if they have right on their side.

Emissaries, Blood Feud

MAKING PEACE

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS

In the Loom House

THE MOOT
Gathering

The parties gather at the moot. There is a truce here and breaking
it will result in fines and possibly demands for outlawry; still, it
does happen.
Both parties tend to spend the time seeking allies to clash
shields and spears on their side at the moot, or bear witness
to acts requiring compensation. Despite Orlanth’s laws and
custom, justice does not always prevail at the moot. The judge
of the court is not immune to political influence, gifts, or
intimidation. The judge likely has to live alongside the people
he has presided over in court the next day. Bringing the most
supporters to the moot to clash shields and spears together has
a significant intimidatory effect on the judge. Because of this,
each side tries to persuade those attending to stand on their
side during the proceedings.
Refer to the Emissaries episode for how to win support at the
moot. Remember that both sides will be seeking it.
The Law Court

The judge hears the jurors from each plaintiff present the
witnesses and their sworn statements. This may take some
time and extend across a day or more. Jurors on each side may
raise points of procedure to have witnesses from the other side
discounted. The jurors’ goal is to paint their picture of events to
the judge, instead of the opposition’s.
When all the witnesses have spoken, the judge will consider
his verdict. The judge’s goal is to restore the balance —
compensating each party to the level it has been aggrieved — not
find right or wrong. What is fair allows a lot of interpretation.
It is here that the judge is open to outside influence, personal
favoritism, or sheer weight of numbers.
The law court is a contest. Use an Extended Contest if you
want to play out the drama of legal argument, otherwise a Group
Extended Contest should give everyone the chance to contribute
to the outcome. It is dull to roll for an NPC so if the PCs are
represented by an NPC have them roll using the clan’s Peace
Resource to resolve the issue instead. Allow them to Augment if
they have obtained support from allies, using the clan’s Wealth
Resource to represent the gifts that will be required.
If the court proceedings do not go the way one side or the
other wants, they may resort to violence (see Sartar: Kingdom of
Heroes, page 216).
If the Red Cow chooses the champion’s duel, it is dull for the
GM to roll for a contest between NPCs. If one of the PCs could
act as champion of the Red Cow, choose them instead. If that
does not work the GM should also consider making the duel a
melee and involve more of the PCs. Finally, if no PC is suitable
for the champion role then allow a PC to roll with the Red Cow
War Resource to settle the dispute.

Weaving the peace rug, the women of the two opposing clans gather
to ‘find another way’ to continued violence. In the absence of a
suitable PC, Darna Longcoat acts as the Red Cow peace weaver. If
a PC is suitable, Darna may offer her the role instead. Darna sees
the PC as in her debt for such an honor and expects loyalty. The PC
has to swear an oath of chastity and poverty during the negotiations.
With loved ones dead many of the women may be in
mourning, their hatred may be directed at the husbands and
sons of the other clan.
The priestesses try to encourage open sharing of grief and
remorse as a prelude to finding a resolution. They try to persuade
the women weave their grief and anger at past events into the rug.
With the past talked about, the priestesses tell everyone to leave
old feelings as memories woven into the rug, but not to carry them
anymore. They discuss how the two clans can move forward. How
can old injuries be atoned? How can new conflicts be averted with
a settlement that soothes pain without causing fresh injury? This is
the key stage of the negotiation. Here peace is made.
The settlement agreed by the women may not only include
the transfer of wealth to redress the balance and return to
the status quo. Ernalda seeks to prevent further conflict by
addressing the underlying causes of conflict. The women look
for root causes: why do the Two-Pine need to be a War Clan, do
the Dinacoli really desire Cinsina lands, should the Red Cow pay
for Two-Pine warriors to fight the wolfmen? Often the women
use marriages between the two clans as part of the settlement, to
help cement the bonds between them.
The Loom House meeting can be handled as a Simple or
Extended Contest. The PCs’ goal is to achieve consensus around
their plan for peace. Ask the players how they see a long-lasting
peace between the two clans being created. The priestess should
use the community’s Peace Resource rating. Summarize the
stages for a Simple Contest result, but for an Extended Contest,
you can play through the stages of the process as the rounds in
the Extended Contest. Any Victory indicates that the two clans
reached agreement, but a Defeat ends up with the enemy clan
storming out of the negotiations. The cause of the breakdown
could be anything from an incautious turn of phrase or look, to
a genuine misunderstanding.
With the peace rug woven in the Loom House with the
proposal, and the clan convinced of the merits of the plan the two
clans meet to agree. This should be a formality, with the ceremony
a ritual cementing of the clan’s agreement. Still, some details may
require fine-tuning when the two sides sit down together.

ENDING CONFLICT
Self-Judgment

Like Orlanth before the Emperor, the Red Cow may offer the
chieftain of the enemy clan self-judgment. The Red Cow will
pay the price demanded by their enemy to settle the feud. This is

Playing the Game

23

ORLANTH BEFORE THE EMPEROR
Orlanth made his bid for friendship. The Emperor made
his demand for atonement. Orlanth made his demand for
recognition. The Emperor made his Requirement for proof.
Orlanth made his promise of the future.
Orlanth began with the Song of Truth. This freed all those
dead who still cared for him. They armed him in ragged
splendor for the tasks to come.
Orlanth underwent Trial by Combat. The Locked Gate
and its guardians had kept certain dead gods imprisoned.
Orlanth fought these Keepers and soon they had joined
their captives in the Hall of the Dead.
Orlanth made a promise of the future, in that it would
be like the past. The Emperor demanded, “Which past?” to
which Orlanth replied: “All of them.” The dead scorned his
words because they all knew they were here in Hell because
everything could not exist at once.
Orlanth suffered the Requirement for Proof, a searing
burning shower of the acidic hatred of all Orlanth’s foes
present. The three baths were Fire, Hatred, and Truth. He
was scorched and would have been destroyed. Only the
faith and love of those he had left behind saved him.

The reading of the law at the Moot
rare, difficult, and likely to be sung of by poets for generations.
It suggests that the dispute has become so dire that the future of
the clan is at stake if the conflict is not ended, whatever the price.
This is a This World Heroquest. Both clans need to prepare for
it as they have roles to play. However, the Red Cow can begin the
ritual unilaterally and the other clan will find itself fulfilling its
role. These preparations are: the Red Cow performs the Arming of

24

Like the Baths of Nelat, he survived. In the Middle World,
the thousands who survived in the Silver Age had a dream
that night, and awoke from nightmare and sacrificed to
Orlanth to strengthen him. Orlanth survived, and so his
Proof was accepted.
The Emperor made his statement of recognition then,
and agreed that Orlanth and his kin had the right to a place
in the universe and that Orlanth was High King among the
gods. All hatred between the Emperor and the High King
would be healed in whatever future might exist.
The Emperor made his demand for Atonement. Orlanth
made obeisance then before the other gods. He acknowledged the power and might of the Emperor and his way of
life as long as it did not interfere with his own.
Orlanth then surprised everyone and made a formal
bid for friendship. The Emperor was reluctant to do this, as
this was not necessary for the world to work. However his
family, advisors, and subjects all begged with the Emperor
to accept and finally he did. Friendship was not necessary
but it made things easier after that.

Orlanth to provide the quester with
Magical Help (HeroQuest Glorantha,
page 196). The enemy clan performs
the Summons of Evil, both to call
the Red Cow heroquester, but also
to call their ancient enemies.
The Red Cow heroquester heads
out to the enemy clan, accompanied
by any supporters. The enemy clan
thanes take him to meet the chieftain
in his hall. The heroquester must run
a gauntlet of the enemy clan who
sneer and jeer him, doubting his
sincerity and honor.
With the enemy clan chieftain,
the Red Cow heroquester speaks
the ritual words of Orlanth offering
self-judgment to the Emperor. Then
the heroquester sings the Song of
Truth. The Song of Truth allows the
hero to obtain Community Support
from his clan (see Sartar: Kingdom of
Heroes page 192).
To prove his words the heroquester must pass the Trial by
Combat. The ritual has summoned the enemy clan’s old enemies
and the heroquester must now confront and defeat them,
showing his willingness to risk life and limb in the pursuit of
justice. The choice of the ‘old enemy’ is up to the Game Master
but see Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes pages 42-43 for the Heortlings’
traditional ancient enemies. Companions (PCs), who accompany
the heroquester can help him defeat the enemy.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

This is an ideal point for a Heroquest Surprise with an
unexpected foe appearing. For example, when offering selfjudgment to the Two-Pine a Lunar heroquester might be drawn
in as the enemy. Killing the Lunar will prove the Red Cow’s intent
to the Two-Pine, but will make the heroquester a rebel who has to
live in hiding and bring reprisals upon the Red Cow clan. Failing
to attack and defeat the Lunar heroquester breaks the quest and
the Two-Pine will refuse the offer of self-judgment with the blame
falling on the Red Cow’s failure.
Next, the heroquester promises that the future will be like the
past. This means that the status quo will be restored. The Emperor’s
question “which past?” implies that the restitution sought by the
enemy clan may not be just for the most recent conflict but for the
cause of all the conflicts between the two clans.
This is the moment the chieftain of the enemy clan makes
his judgment on what the Red Cow must pay in compensation
so as to settle the ongoing conflict. This is reflected in a penalty
from Resource Depletion (see HeroQuest Glorantha) of -3, -6,
-9, or –W. The Red Cow must now prove they will honor this
agreement. The assembled crowds from the enemy clan spit
forth their bile and hatred, doubting the Red Cow’s willingness
to match their demands. The heroquester can draw on the clan’s
Magic Resource rating to resist, as his clanfolk at home lend their
support to his attempt to restore justice.
The Red Cow heroquester atones for the clan’s acts. At this
point the ritual is completed. Any ongoing conflict is ended
by the Red Cow’s compensation and proofs. Further conflict
between the two clans is averted for a period determined by the
Game Master from the heroquester’s success. A Marginal Victory
might last only a season, a Minor Victory a year, a Major Victory
three years, and a Complete Victory seven years.
A heroquester can go one step further and try to create
friendship between the two clans. This is not required, but is
possible if the heroquester gained a Major Victory on atonement.
The heroquester needs to make a bid for friendship, explaining
why the enemy clan would benefit from becoming friends. Only
a Complete Victory results in friendship, but any Victory gives
a Benefit of Victory to further attempts to gain friendship and
removes the clan as an enemy of the Red Cow.

PLAY OF THE GAME
The most likely option for peace is that the clan chooses to
pursue resolution through the courts.
Queen Ivartha presides over any dispute between Cinsina
clans. She favors traditionalist Orlanthi clans such as the Red
Cow and Frithan over ‘traitor’ clans such as the Dolutha and
Greenhaft and her judgments reflect that. This tends to leave
those clans spitting with fury, but Ivartha has little sympathy
with the turncoats. However, she tries to ensure some balance,
as she does not want to encourage feuding within the tribe by
giving the nod to those who kill members of the ‘traitor’ clans.
Feuds weaken the tribe and give advantage to the tribe’s enemies.
Disputes with the Two-Pine can be heard in Jonstown.
Lyserian Goodspeech, the mayor of Jonstown (see Sartar
Companion, page 14), usually presides at the court when it
hears such disputes. Lyserian cares less about appeasing the clans

WILDDAY
Throughout the Jonstown Confederation area people
become nervous on Wildday. This is the day the Telmori
transform into werewolves — and people seek shelter for
themselves and their livestock. Most settlements in this
area have some form of enclosure: a wooden palisade,
a dry-stone wall, or a dumped rampart. During the day,
people try to stay close to the refuge of these walls, carrying a horn to summon help if caught outside when the
wolves are running. But it is night that most people fear,
and they shelter around the fire in their defended places,
praying to the gods for protection from the wolfmen.

than appeasing the Lunar prefect Tovtarim Orindori (see Sartar
Companion, page 15). He is eager to bring peace as quickly as he
can, and penalizes both clans for their part in the feud. If one of
the clans has significant ties to the Empire, Lyserian’s judgment
will likely favor them. The Red Cow may have the advantage in
this court, if they play the Lunar sympathizer card against the
notorious troublemakers from the Two-Pine. Of course playing
such a card might have to be backed up with concessions to the
Empire and the Moon Winds in the clan.
The Emerald Sword owe fealty to Harvar Ironfist in AldaChur not Jonstown or Prince Temertain in Boldhome and so it
is difficult to obtain justice through the courts. One option is to
seek peace with the aid of the clans’ women. This is only likely
if both sides have become sufficiently tired of conflict that they
both want a way out of the feud. Both sides can seek judgment,
most likely from Jomes. Whilst Jomes might be better disposed
toward the Lunar sympathizing Emerald Sword he is very
interested in who drew “first blood” and is likely to decide in the
other parties favor, unless the second party “upped the ante” with
stead burning or similar dishonorable behavior.
Offering self-judgment is a once in a generation event which
poets will sing of for years. It is also a climactic event likely to
change the nature of the conflict between the Red Cow and
one of their neighbors permanently. It is suggested that you
only use this option if it seems likely that a PC will be in the
position to lead the heroquest. Such great events should always
be the work of the PCs.

PATROL
BEGINS WITH
Jaranil meets with any of the PCs who are fit to serve in the clan
militia in the chieftain’s hall. Some of the chieftain’s housecarls
are there too: Ortossi, Jarstak or Aethelric are sitting on a bench
near the hearth. Jaranil is relaxed and informal, but not friendly.
He offers the PCs a place on the bench and a cup of ale. He tells
them he needs them to help patrol the clan’s lands and keep the
clan safe. This he explains is a duty and everyone must take his or

Playing the Game

25

A patrol confronts chaos
her turn. He points to the housecarls and tells the PCs they will
report to one of them on patrol.
Jaranil then empties an odd assortment of bronze weapons
and armor from a chest on to a rug. There are spear-points, a
sword, a couple of helmets, some vambraces, and greaves. He
calls the PCs forward one-by-one and offers them their pick of
the items. Then he pours a libation of beer and extracts an oath
from each ‘volunteer’ to be willing to die in the defense of his or
her clan. (The chosen items are payment for future service). They
are color unless a PC wishes to cement one as a new Ability by
spending a Hero Point.

ARANWYTH TRIBESFOLK

CAST

Outlaws who cannot find employment often turn to banditry
to survive. Some people just prefer to steal for a living. Patrols
attack and drive off bandits. The rebellion has led to many bandits
excusing their actions as “striking blows against the Empire.” The
Red Cow clan tends to have little sympathy for those who use
such excuses. Broddi has little desire for Imperial retribution to
fall on his villages and dismisses all “men of the road” as bandits
who should be “run off our lands.”

Jaranil the Thunder, Ortossi Ketilsson, Jarstak Bristle-Beard,
Aethelric the Girl

SITUATION
Someone needs to patrol the borders of the clan lands to keep
out raiders and the interior to prevent bandits or outlaws taking
up residence. Housecarls in the service of the chieftain or thanes
tend to be given patrol duties, leading members of the clan
militia for numbers.
Border patrol is one of the main duties of clan patrols. The
patrol leader is charged with deciding on whether to accept the
Greeting from groups desiring Red Cow hospitality (see Sartar:
Kingdom of Heroes page 248). The Greeting protects both guest
and host from trouble and ensures peace, so it is common where
the visitors are not well known to the patrol or on official business.
A number of groups tend to regularly pass through Red
Cow lands:

26

They sometimes travel up through Jarolvale on the way north.
The Red Cow tends to offer the Aranwyth hospitality unless they
are known troublemakers. The most likely reason for Aranwyth
travelers are pilgrims heading to Good Rain Hill. Broddi’s orders
are that pilgrims should be treated with respect, however Moon
Winds in the clan might try to report the movements of Orlanthi
pilgrims to the authorities to prove their religious zeal. The patrol
might have to negotiate with their own traitorous kin to prevent
the pilgrims being arrested.

BANDITS

CULBREA TRIBESFOLK
Few from that tribe have any reason to pass across Red Cow lands.
Most travel to Jonstown or Dangerford via Greenhaft — so patrols
are suspicious of Culbrea visitors. A visit from the Two-Pine usually
mean trouble and patrols regularly drive them off. More often than
not Culbrea on the clan lands mean cattle raiders.

DINACOLI TRIBESFOLK
Red Cow hatred for the Dinacoli runs deep and there are few
legitimate reasons for Dinacoli folk to pass through Red Cow
lands. Still Broddi allows them to attend the Red Cow market

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

and has issued orders for them to be allowed through for that
reason. Otherwise, “Run them off ” because they will be raiders.

DOLUTHA AND BLUEBERRY CLANFOLK
These are the Red Cow’s neighbors along the Danda and the
border is porous. Patrols avoid harassing Dolutha clanfolk here
unless there is friction between the two clans. Those who press
further into the clan lands are challenged and can be refused
hospitality if they cannot show good cause for their presence
— such as meeting kinfolk amongst the Red Cow. Some might
be legitimate emissaries who have come to Broddi; they need
escorting without trouble. A patrol might also encounter Dolutha
or Blueberry cattle raiders, or the aftermath of a raid with a local
thane hot in pursuit. Restraint is the order of the day to avoid
killings and a blood feud, though angry locals with their blood
up may not care. The Red Cow tends to have a friendly rivalry
with the Blueberry but the Dolutha may refuse to surrender
their prizes without a fight.

OTHER CINSINA CLANFOLK
The patrol welcomes these folk and offers them hospitality
unless they are known troublemakers. They may be visiting kin
or friends within the Red Cow, if they neighbor the Red Cow,
or they might be emissaries.

IMPERIAL TROOPS OR OFFICIALS
Broddi does not want the Empire antagonized, so patrols leave
those on official business alone. Jaranil however requests that the
patrol shadows them and reports their movements. Most Lunar
patrols ignore those of the Red Cow but some are officious and
assert the Empire’s right to move unimpeded across Red Cow
lands. When this happens the squad leader may be deliberately
confrontational with the patrol. Few are really looking for a fight,
expecting the Red Cow to back down, but they are interested in
making the natives cower. If the PCs do cross swords with the
Empire, they had better leave no survivors to tell the tale for fear
of Lunar reprisals. Whilst the ring would ask Jaranil to try to
cover up an incident where there were no survivors, they would
be forced to outlaw the offenders to save the clan if it came out.

TELMORI BRAVES
The only reason for Telmori in Red Cow lands is raiding. These
are dangerous foes, so a patrol leader may try to shadow them,
warn villages of their approach, and summon help. Ambitious
patrol leaders may try to tackle the Telmori themselves, though
no one without good magic or iron should really try this. The
patrol might come across members of the Wolfskinners who are
hunting Telmori on Red Cow clan lands, even Queen Ivartha
herself. These Telmori hunters may encourage the patrol to join
them “bring the Telmori down.” If a fight does begin then no one
shows Telmori any mercy.

WANDERERS AND ODDBALLS
Other groups such as merchants or adventurers are dealt with on
a case-by-case basis, which means that the patrol escorts them to
Red Cow Fort for the chieftain to make a decision.

WULFSLANDERS
When traveling to Dangerford, or beyond to Jonstown Wulfslanders
must pass along the Creek. Few request hospitality at Red Cow
on the way to Dangerford, preferring the inns there, but those
returning home often request to stay if nightfall is close. Jaranil’s
standing instructions are not to annoy these folk, as Jomes is too
powerful to make an enemy of. Whilst most such guests are no
trouble and easily put up in the bothies in Red Cow Fort, some
of them know that Red Cow will not risk angering Jomes and
arrogantly put increasingly difficult demands on the patrol, hoping
to rile them. These folks do not want a real fight; they just want
to establish their superior status to the Red Cow’s discomfort.

CONNECTED EPISODES
Feud, Trade, War

PLAY OF THE GAME
Patrol provides a convenient excuse for PCs to deal with
outsiders whilst remaining at home. Some of the scenes here are
about diplomacy, some are about fighting, and some could go
either way. Unless you frame it as a “montage,” you are unlikely
to want to run several of these scenes in one session. Focus
some preparation on the NPCs who make up the visitors to
understand their motivations and interactions. NPCs from this
book are a useful source of encounters for any patrol, and further
expose your PCs to the setting material.
Sartar Companion also provides a useful source of encounters
you can use for a patrol. If you are stuck for inspiration for a
session having a patrol encounter, any one of those groups will
produce an entertaining night’s play.
You can use the patrol episode to emphasize to the PCs
that Dragon Pass is a dangerous place to live and strangers and
enemies surround the clans living here.
Doing patrol duty also provides an excuse for the PCs to
work with the ring and the chieftain’s housecarls.

TRADE
BEGINS WITH
Broddi summons the PCs to his hall.

CAST
Broddi Strong-Kin

SITUATION
A clan sends gifts with emissaries in the hope of purchasing
alliance or friendship. It sends goods in trade when it lacks
resources in its own lands that it must import. The Red Cow
clan needs to import: metal ores, salt, spices, horses, glassware,
fine items of craftsmanship for use as gifts, and wine. It exports

Playing the Game

27

whatever the importer needs that they produce: fish, meat,
leather, wool, or grain.
Trade with a friendly clan or an ally is about equal exchange
not profit. This is the domain of Issaries and his worshippers,
of striking a contract mutually beneficial to both parties. Coins
rarely change hands, instead the clans barter goods and services.
When neighbors, friends, or allies do not have the goods the Red
Cow needs, they have to send clanfolk further afield. Commonly
clanfolk travel to a city like Jonstown (Sartar Companion, page
5) or Boldhome (Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes, page 241) with its
great markets. Alternatively they might make the journey to a far
off clan center such as Clearwine (Sartar Companion, page 28) to
trade for some of the Colymar’s famous wine, or Runegate (Sartar
Companion, page 55) to trade for horses. Trade at these locations
tends to be for payment in cash — usually silver Jonstown guilders.
Of course that creates the problem that if you want to purchase at
those markets, you need silver too.
Finally the clan might take advantage of a wandering
merchant, one of the famous Goldentongues of the Issaries cult
such as Joh Mith (Sartar Companion, page 14), Biturian Varosh
(Sartar Companion, page 123), or even a Lunar merchant like
Ingkot Sharp-Eyes (see page 270). Of course under the auspices
of the Issaries cult these markets and wandering merchants still
seek ‘equal exchange’ but they expect a gift for their service in
arranging the transaction. This is their profit on the trade, the
way they earn a living.

CONNECTED EPISODES
Emissaries

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS
BANDITS
Bandits are an ever-present danger, especially when you are trying
to take goods between one clan and another. A group of bandits
may try to steal some or all of the Red Cow’s trade goods. They
might be enemies, the Two-Pine clan supplements their income by
raiding, and Telmori bachelor packs are not averse to stealing. They
might also simply be outlaws, desperate to survive. Of course some
of those outlaws may style themselves as rebels against the Empire.

THE CHAIN
The prospective trading partners have what you want, but the Red
Cow have nothing they want, but another clan, whom the prospective clan has nothing to offer to, does have what the first clan
wants. Now, if only the Red Cow could convince the second clan
then to exchange with their traders for what the first clan needs…
Of course the chain can keep going with each new clan
requiring you to talk to another clan, until finally someone can
make a trade and get the whole chain moving. Don’t overplay
this though, as it is as frustrating in a game as it is in real life.
The main purpose of the chain is to push the episode in an unexpected direction by making the PCs negotiate with a different
clan. Usually the other clan should provide something more
interesting than being just one of the neighbors. They might
be located some distance away. You can even use this to force

28

your PCs further afield amongst the Exiles of Wintertop, the
Tarshites, Esrolians or Volsaxi. You might choose a more exotic
group such as the Grazeland Pony Breeders, Beast Men, or Black
Horse Troop if you feel ambitious.

HARD TIMES
Times may be hard for the Red Cow, but they are even harder for
their prospective trading partners. They can only give the Red Cow
a fraction of what they want, and need a considerable amount in
return. There could be advantage to be had from helping out the
less fortunate. Generosity is an Orlanthi virtue and the indebted
clan would have to repay the debt in the future. However, that
does not help the Red Cow meets its own needs, and resources
may end up further depleted by this trade. If the PCs do decide
to trade treat any result as a Pyrrhic Victory when figuring the
Resource Depletion from successful trading.

RIVALS
The Red Cow is not the only clan here to trade. An enemy clan,
the Emerald Sword or the Two-Pines have shown up as well. The
prospective clan does not have enough resources to satisfy the
needs of everyone. The Two-Pines will use the threat of violence
to ensure that they gain the trade. The Emerald Sword will hint
at Imperial disfavor. How does the Red Cow prevail? Can they
negotiate something to everyone’s advantage, or must they worsen
their position with their rivals to win?

WE DON’T FORGET
Old rivalries, remembered insults, and slights mean that the
prospective clan is unwilling to trade. They regard the Red Cow
as arrogant for even coming to suggest the two might exchange
goods. This is a common problem when the Red Cow try to
trade with the Dolutha for horses, but sometimes the Toena just
cannot meet their needs, and Runegate is a long way to travel. A
successful trade will mean overcoming the hostility the prospective
clan feels. This will of course be even worse if the events involved
have happened within game time, and involved some of the PCs.
The PCs may be regarded as an enemy, and not a friend.

WE’D LOVE TO HELP BUT…
The prospective trade partners would love to help the Red Cow,
but they have a problem that means they cannot think about
trading right now. Now if the Red Cow could help them solve
this little problem…. Usually the problem is one of the seven
dangers: strangers, foreigners, enemies, hostile gods and spirits,
disease, hunger, or Chaos.
One obvious question is why the prospective partners cannot
solve it themselves. It may be due to ineptitude, and meaning the
PCs are likely to make enemies of those who have persistently
failed to solve the problem. It might also be due to taboos that
prevent the clan from acting on its own behalf. If the clan has a
taboo against killing dragonewts and yet a number of them are
using the clan lands as a hunting ground, bringing down animals
and people, they might need someone else to act. A clan allied
to the Red Cow may be the problem and the prospective trade
partners simply want the Red Cow to intervene on their behalf.
In some cases the only ‘trade’ the prospective clan wants is for the

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

The trader arrives
Red Cow to negotiate their problem away. Acting as a conciliator
in such cases is a classic Issaries role.

YOU HAVE NOTHING WE WANT
The prospective trade partners do not want to talk about what
they really need, because they are too worried about revealing
their weaknesses to the Red Cow. This means the clan is probably
not a friend of the Red Cow. Negotiations will stall, primarily
because until the prospective clan reveals their real need they
won’t make a trade. The PCs will need to figure out what the
prospective clan really needs, in all likelihood despite their best
efforts to hide it.

PLAY OF THE GAME
Trade is a great reason for players to leave the Red Cow clan and
visit ‘foreign parts.’ It might be a simple trip to the Jonstown
market, but the big city makes a change of pace for a clan game.
You can go further afield to Runegate or Clearwine, or even
Boldhome itself, allowing the Game Master to give the PCs a
view of the diversity of the kingdom beyond Cinsina lands.
If you are feeling more adventurous it might even involve a
journey to far off parts of Dragon Pass such as Wintertop, Muse
Roost, Beast Valley, Dwarf Run, or Tarsh. It might even mean a
trip to foreign lands such as the Holy Country or Pavis in search
of something truly exotic the ring needs.
There is no need for the PCs to make the trade themselves
if they have no appropriate abilities. The PCs might simply be
along to guard the trader and her goods. Some of the goods are
gifts, as described in Emissaries, to win over the chieftain of the
clan they visit. Such gifts need protection. Once the trade is
complete, someone has to transport goods and services between
the clans, which again require protection from bandits.

The resource the Red Cow requires is frequently a
‘MacGuffin’ — a term coined by Alfred Hitchcock for an item
that everyone seeks, but whose properties beyond that are
unknown. The ‘MacGuffin’ is just an excuse for people to travel
somewhere and search for something and has no value beyond
that. Of course the MacGuffin brought back to the clan by the
PCs today, might be the inspiration for another plot for the
players tomorrow.
The most interesting aspect of travel for PCs is exposure to
other clans, cities, or even foreign lands. All of those represent
opportunities for conflict and change.
Trade is a good way for the Red Cow clan to Bolster Resources
(see HeroQuest Glorantha page 125). Trade is just the use of one
Resource to bolster another. If a PC is in charge then the Red
Cow should offer him one or more clan Resources to draw on
when trading. The resource is whatever the Red Cow considers
‘surplus’ to trade for whatever is in ‘shortfall.’

WAR
Trading the War Resource involves hiring out Red Cow thanes and
their men, the clan’s “spears and swords” to act as mercenaries. If
the Red Cow is trading with another clan, these mercenaries are
probably for a feud the friendly clan is participating in. If trading
in Jonstown these are likely to be mercenaries in the pay of local
merchants or traders. The Red Cow might also trade resources
to the Empire. Most likely such soldiers relieve Imperial troops
from garrison duty in other parts of Sartar to allow them to head
south to fight in the Holy Country. But the mercenaries might
be sent there themselves.
Few people distinguish easily between the actions of Red Cow
thanes acting as mercenaries and the actions of the Red Cow
themselves, so any such trade risks embroiling the clan in wider
conflicts. All of that is perfect material for further adventures.

Playing the Game

29

THE STEALING OF THE GIANT’S COWS
Gochbadun was a son of Urox, and one of the great
aurochs, bursting with vigor and health. Courageous,
fierce, and strong, Gochbadun was the greatest of the
aurochs. Bergilmer the giant chieftain had Gochbadun
in his herd. Bergilmer’s clan occupied the lands north of
the Quivin Mountains at that time, and few dared to try
to settle those lands.
King Ulanin’s scouts often reported that Bergilmer’s clan
enjoyed the taste of men and the terrible smell of roasting
man-flesh at the giant’s hearth. The king despised Bergilmer,
but his advisers told him not to attack the giant chieftain,
whose stead was surrounded by stout wooden walls and
guarded by the two-headed dogs.
When Ulanin heard of the great bull, he swore that he
would add Gochbadun to his own herds and drive Bergilmer’s
clan out of the lands north of the Quivin Mountains. He rode
out with his war host, with their glittering spears and mail
coats to take the giant’s treasure. Many fine men rode with
him, including his sons Brandig Blue-Helm and Joram the
Sword, along with Harkala Never-Blink. She was in exile
from the Koroltes then.
This was the route of the war host: they went east of the
Wild Mountain, past Korgradus and Hareva. This was King
Ulanin’s land and he was greeted with a day-feed when he
needed to rest. Ulanin’s host had to fight off the raiders in
the hills, and the king was shocked that his enemies had

HEROQUEST:
THE STEALING OF
THE GIANT’S COWS
BACKGROUND
The Stealing of the Giant’s Cows is a well-known Orlanthi ‘cattle
raiding’ heroquest. Ulanin the Rider, Vingkot’s son-in-law, and
an ancestor of the Red Cow clan, stole aurochs from the herd
of the giant Bergilmer. The giant chieftain Bergilmer’s stockade
became Red Cow Fort.
Performing this quest successfully leads to the clan’s
cattle calving the red cows. The quest is done in late Sea
Season for calving early in the following Sea Season.
Commonly the questers, called the Auroch
Bringers, use Orlanth’s Sword Day rites
to begin the quest.
Whilst much of the myth is wellknown, no clan has fully succeeded
in this heroquest; the frontal assault
of Bergilmer’s hill fort is too hard.
The Culbrea under Hofstaring
Treeleaper tried and failed.

30

grown so bold. Then they headed east into the giant’s lands,
so long denied to man.
Ulanin’s host met Bergilmer’s giants there, and many
of his host died. They feared the two-headed dogs more
than the giants, but Ulanin speared them from his horse
Goldwind. The host marched on to Borden Hill. After the
defeat of his warriors, Bergilmer the Cowardly withdrew
his remaining giants inside the fort.
Ulanin laid siege to Bergilmer’s camp. Six times he
assaulted the walls of the giant’s castle, and six times, he
was repelled, but he never gave up. On the seventh attempt,
Ulanin breached the walls and his men poured through
the gap. Bergilmer the Cowardly escaped, but Ulanin took
possession of the place of slaughter.
Ulanin then built a hill fort of two ditches and three banks,
half a mile wide, to guard his captured herd.
Red Cow Fort was tested three times.
The first came when Bergilmer returned looking for his
missing bull.
The second was when King Hargart Many-trials of
the Stravuli raided the Orgorvaltes because he wanted
Gochbadun for his own. Jarenst Bear-club held off Hargart’s
warband for three days and nights at Dangerford that time.
The third and final time was when Foul-of-the-Woods
led an army of broos here. That time the fort failed; no one
remained to tell of it, but the Red Broos were seen after that.

Everyone guesses that the Red Cow must have some secret
to overcoming Bergilmer because it does not appear possible for
even a tribe to muster the required strength. Of course, the Red
Cow only has the famous red cows born to their cattle, so most
folk guess their approach does not give them the full benefit of
the quest.
Because of the importance of this heroquest to the clan, the
PCs should participate in it during the campaign. They might
participate more than once, first perhaps as a common raider,
directed by others, later perhaps as the leader of the raid. The
Game Master should ensure there are surprises and
variations each time the quest is run.
This adventure is key to the identity of the
Red Cow and the Game Master
should take time to play
through it the first time,
establishing the key
ritual that gives the clan
its identity.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

An aurochs, now extinct.
A prophecy tells that the
Liberator will hunt them
again in Dragon Pass

PREPARATIONS
The Auroch Bringers are an inner circle within the Red Cow clan,
whose membership has participated in the quest. It is this group
that knows the secret that allows the Red Cow to steal Bergilmer’s
cows. Broddi Strong-Kin is the priest of Ulanin the Rider and the
leader of the Auroch Bringers. He has participated in the quest.
The Red Cow clan was not the Red Cow before they
came here, and did not possess the secret of breeding the red
cows. Maklan the Fat and Good knew of the Stealing of the
Giant’s Cows; he had always, like others, failed when he tried
it. However, he knew that the hill fort the exiles from Durulz
Valley now occupied was Bergilmer’s fort. Maklan found a secret
way into the fort, via a series of underground passages. Seizing
this advantage, Maklan entered Bergilmer’s fort undetected and
opened the gates to the other besiegers.
There are a number of entrances to the cave system that runs
under Red Cow Fort. For this raid the Red Cow use one that
runs under the Heort Creek, but at least one other runs under
the Creek. With the threat posed by enemies attacking the fort
via the tunnels, the ring is anxious only a few people know
about the tunnels under the fort. Only the chieftain, the ring,
and the Auroch Bringers know of it. It is Very High difficulty to
get permission to use the tunnels today, for fear of its discovery.
Only an emergency threatening the clan might change that.
The Auroch Bringers only tell members of the clan the secret,
when they join the quest.

The clan can take considerable numbers of thanes or other
warriors on the quest because they have to defeat Bergilmer and
his guards and escape with the cattle — this is after all a cattle
raid. The limiting factor is moving a large body of armed men
between Red Cow clan lands and Ulaninstead, the traditional
jumping off point for the quest. As these are Sword Day rites,
and celebrate the martial aspects of Orlanth, the Empire regularly
tries to disrupt these ceremonies. For this reason the clan tends
to take a dozen men on a typical attempt at the quest.
As befits a raid by Ulanin, all of the participants on the quest
should be mounted.

CLAN SUPPORT

The Red Cow continues to accomplish the heroquest by using
a trick — sneaking into Bergilmer’s castle. Because of this, they
do not gain the full benefits possible from this quest — the birth
of aurochs to their herds. To obtain the full benefit, the quester
would have to follow Ulanin’s example and drive Bergilmer out
of his castle. Less well known is that the questers would also
have to complete “The Testing of Red Cow Fort” — when foes
attacked the fort to take back the giant’s cows — to accomplish
all the conditions and return aurochs to the clan.
This event lies outside of the timeline of this campaign, but
the Argrath will show the Red Cow how to achieve this quest
during the Hero Wars and help them to do it. This will complete
an important prophecy.

If a PC wants to lead the Stealing of the Giant’s Cows, it is essential
to obtain clan support for this quest both to learn the secret and
to be able to use the clan’s Magic Resource during the quest.
Broddi Strong-Kin will present the quest leader with the Meteor
Spear as the link between the clan and the quester.
At the Sacred Time rites, the PCs should try to obtain the
support of the clan. The difficulty of this should be High or Very
High. Although the Red Cow regularly performs this quest, the
resistance reflects the danger of the quester failing and the lack
of any red cows being born that year. Benefits of Victory to clan
relationships should apply, as should Situational Modifiers for
those PCs who have proven themselves successfully.
If the PCs simply want to join an existing quest then there is no
need for them to roll, the NPC leader will obtain support instead.
If the PC fails to gain support for their leadership of the quest, the
Red Cow will still perform the quest, but an NPC will lead.
As with any cattle raid, the PCs may want to “gather spears”
filling out the numbers of raiders they have for the quest. There
is usually no shortage of willing volunteers from amongst the
ambitious thanes of the clan. Pick some NPCs from amongst the
thanes who both support and oppose the PCs and allow them
to choose who accompanies them. Wise old questers like Broddi
may advise them to take the best men they can find, even if they
are rivals. One or two youngsters might try to join as well. The
PCs may want to give them a chance, but the Game Master
might want to point out the dangers of heroquesting by having
one such NPC meet a grizzly end and become mentally scarred
and broken by the experience — ending up in what the Orlanthi
call the Mishap House.

OBJECTIVE OF THE QUEST

PERFORMING THE QUEST

THE RED COW ‘TRICK’

When the Red Cow supports this quest the objective is always
to breed the famous Red Cows. There are side-benefits members
of the clan can accrue from participating in the quest, as
companions.

WHO ARE THE HERO AND HIS COMPANIONS?
The key mythic role is that of Ulanin the Rider and one of
the participants must be Ulanin to obtain the benefits of the
quest. This may or may not be a PC. It is possible for the PCs
to participate once in this quest as supporters and later lead it.
Broddi Strong-Kin, Farandar Orendalsson, and Verlain
Never-Doubt have all led and succeeded at the quest. They are
all happy to offer advice on how to succeed.

THE JOURNEY TO ULANINSTEAD
The party setting out from Red Cow Fort is large. There are the
dozen or so participants in the quest, who will actually cross over
to the Other Side. The participants dress in Vingkotling costume.
They wear masks, to show which of Ulanin’s band they are. Broddi
Strong-Kin presents the most elaborate mask, that of Ulanin the
Rider, to the quest leader. Ulanin’s entire band is mounted and
their horses have the finest ceremonial tack in gold, silver, and tin.
In addition, supporters accompany the quest, to aid with
the ceremonies. Broddi Strong-Kin, Farandar Orendalsson, and
Verlain Never-Doubt will accompany the quest to its starting
point, even if they are not leading it, or joining in with the

Playing the Game

31

THE MISHAP HOUSE

STARTING ELSEWHERE

“Mishap House” refers to clan dependents, particularly
those who were permanently disabled or made mentally
incompetent while performing a special task for the
clan. Since such tasks often entail a dangerous trip to
the Otherworld, the Mishap House commonly includes
survivors of heroquests who have paid the price but not
collected any reward.
Clans rarely have an actual house for these pitiful folks,
for who but Chalana Arroy could bear to be amongst so
much misery concentrated into a single place? The term
“house” is used in the meaning of “a group of people.”
People usually tend their own kin in these circumstances.

Why doesn’t the Red Cow begin the quest from Good
Rain Hill, or Larnste’s Table? Maklan first succeeded at
the myth from Ulaninstead, and the conservative Red
Cow have always followed that tradition, unsure if the
quest begun from another location would work as well.
Desperate times might push the PCs to try this and
persuade the clan to support them. In this case, the herds
of the leader of the quest will calve red cows, as expected,
but the effects will not spread to the whole clan.

quest. In addition, Griselda Gray-Tresses joins the company of
heroquesters to add Ernalda’s support. Many of these supporters
travel with parts of their own households to support them. In
total this means that the Red Cow party consists of some 30-40
members of the clan.
It is worth noting that anyone journeying to Ulaninstead will
miss the clan moot and tribal market. Rivals might use this to
press claims or other advantages in their absence.
If things go well the march to Ulaninstead should take five
days. However, things never quite go to plan so the Red Cow
typically allows ten days to make the journey.
The group normally sets out on Waterday of Stasis Week of
Sea Season, traveling to Dangerford. From Dangerford the PCs
can take the King’s Road south to Jonstown. From Jonstown the
route follows the King’s Road as it climbs through the mountains.
The group does not tarry too long in Boldhome and move on
the next day. From Boldhome the party must descend into
Killard Valley and Goodfork. The route then winds through the
Sambari Pass through Saruvan’s Hills to Wilmskirk. The Red
Cow party always stops the night in Wilmskirk and hires a guide.
From there the King’s Road goes through Balmyr Country and
the party leaves the road heading on into Richberry Vale and
from there to the site of Ulaninstead.
You can make this journey as rich or uneventful as you like,
treating it as an extended travelogue, or simply saying, ‘You are
there!’ and treat it as an Arduous Auto-Success.

CROSSING OVER
At Ulaninstead, little more than a raised obelisk with a
Movement Rune carved on one of its faces now marks the small
mound where Ulanin once had his stead. This is a holy place
(see Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes, page 86) and associated with the
Movement Rune (s).
At dusk, as Windsday begins the celebrant (Broddi Strong-Kin
if he accompanies the group or a PC) begins the preparations to
commence the ritual to open the sacred space. The next morning
he performs the Arming of Orlanth to prepare the leader for the
heroquest (see Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes, pages 192-193). The
celebrant presents the quest leader with the Meteor Spear at this
point, giving him the clan’s Community Support for the quest

32

and allowing the quest leader to use the clan’s Magic Resource
rating on the Other Side. The celebrant sacrifices a stallion,
slashing open its throat and catching the blood in an ornate
cup. The participants then drink fresh, hot, horse blood before
crossing over to the Other Side to begin their heroquest.

THE OTHER SIDE JOURNEY
ULANINSTEAD
Crossing to the Other Side the PCs find themselves beneath a
very dark blue sky — this is the Late Storm Age after the waters
invade the Heavens, turning them blue. Cold winds blow. A
few indistinct planets and moons are visible in the sky. Many
are unfamiliar.
Ulaninstead is restored around them. Ulanin’s megaron is fit
for a king, over a hundred feet long. The walls are built of immense
stone blocks — even the door arches have huge stone lintels.
Plaster, painted with scenes of war and hunting covers the walls.
Great wooden posts support rafters and a tiled roof. An enormous
bowl, in which burns the great hearth fire, dominates Ulanin’s
Hall — a clay pipe in the roof allows the smoke out of the hall.
A beautiful young woman approaches the quest leader; her
long dark hair is bound in a golden headdress. She kisses the
quester who has taken the part of Ulanin. “Husband, bring
your companions, the feast is ready.” It is Orgorvale Summer,
Vingkot’s daughter and Ulanin’s wife.
It is a grand feast, and everyone has a belly full of beef,
venison, and pork by the end, washed down with mead. At the
conclusion of the feast, Ulanin’s skald, Janar Black-Tooth, comes
forth and sings a praise song to Ulanin and Orgorvale; he lists
their wealth, from pails and cauldrons and other bronze cast
vessels, through rings and torcs, armor and weapons, sheep, pigs
and cattle. As the skald finishes singing, a beggar, let into the hall
for the scraps, shocks everyone by approaching the high table.
He pulls back his hood to reveal he only has one eye, the other a
gaping socket from some brutal encounter.
“I may only have one eye to see,” he begins, “but Ulanin’s
cattle cannot compare to Bergilmer’s cattle. In particular he has
no bull like Gochbadun in his herd.
“Gochbadun, the son of Urox, is a great aurochs bursting with
vigor and health. He can sire fifty cows every morning, and each
will give birth to a fine calf by sunset. He has a white head and
white feet, but his body is the red color of blood. All his offspring

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

are colored the same way. Six of every seven can be milked three
times a day, but the seventh is always thin and weak. Ten men can
stand on Gochbadun’s broad back, and he is taller than three men.
His bellowing is like thunder, his breath like fire. Courageous,
fierce, and strong, Gochbadun is the greatest of the aurochs.
“Bergilmer the giant chieftain owns Gochbadun at his stead
north of the Quivin Mountains. Truly I believe he is richer than
Ulanin, and a finer chieftain.”
The PC taking Ulanin’s role should leap to his feet and
swear an oath that he will steal Bergilmer’s prize bull. If the
PC does not react, have Orgorvale prompt him “Husband can
we let this chieftain of the giants outshine us here in our own
lands? We will bring shame upon our descendants and mockery
in my father Vingkot’s hall.”

ARFRITHA VALE
The host sets off from Ulaninstead, mounted on fine horses and
begins the journey north.
Much of the journey is through the lands of the Orgorvaltes
tribe, to whom Ulanin is king. Most of the settlements are
isolated farmsteads instead of villages. The king is welcome in
any of these steads, and the inhabitants do their best to provide
refreshments for King Ulanin and his men.
Much is familiar about the journey, seven-and-a-half miles
high Kero Fin is visible on the skyline, and the Quivin Mountains
dominate the landscape. However, much is unfamiliar. Many of
the rivers the PCs know are not there: there is no White River,
and no Creek. The rivers, such as the Boranini and Lorthing, are
more like long ribbon lakes than rivers.
This part of the journey is most variable. Sometimes it is
uneventful; sometimes Ulanin’s party encounters something
unexpected. We provide examples below. Often the Red Cow
tries to influence what foe they meet here by performing the
Summons of Evil before they undertake the heroquest (see
Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes, page 193). The most common
encounters are raiders, particularly Hsunchen. Usually they are
Telmori raiders from the lands of Seravus the Enchanter. This is
an ideal place for any Heroquest Surprises (see Sartar: Kingdom
of Heroes, page 186). The Red Broos are Heroquest Surprises
Farandar encountered here too — everyone in the clan will be
worried if this occurs a second time. This is deeply upsetting to
the Orlanthi — broos should not be around before the Great
Darkness and occur later in the myth after the fort falls to the
broos; and yet heroquesters are encountering them here.
The Telmori

The Telmori raiding party is a mixed band of wolves and men.
Usually a Telmori shaman leads the raiding party and uses his
magic to fell enemy champions or support his braves. Sometimes
spirit wolves lead the raiding pack. These wolves are the pups of
Telmor, and are the size of horses with a vice-like bite that crushes
bronze and splinters bone, fiery red eyes, and a terrifying howl
striking fear into men. They are capable of leaping 15’ in a single
bound. A spirit wolf often leaps onto a target to knock it down
before savaging it. They are capable of breaking an Orlanthi shield
wall with the ferocity of their charge. Spirit wolves are also smart.
They can speak although they have a gruff voice. When on a raid

the spirit wolves issue orders to common wolves and braves alike.
Fighting a spirit wolf has a High or Very High resistance.
The Telmori use pack ambush tactics. Against a strong foe they
try to lure the Orlanthi into a trap by sending out a small band as
bait; against a weaker foe they will send out pursuers to drive the
Orlanthi into an ambush. Often the Telmori will be a local foe of
the Red Cow drawn into this quest to raid his ancient enemies.
The leader here may be a Telmori NPC from this book, such
as Black-Paws Helkos or Jogar Sog. If so, you might want to up
the resistance. People take on the masks of their gods on the
Other Side, so the PCs will not be able to recognize the NPC,
but certain tells may suggest it is a given person known to them.
The Red Broos

The Red Broos are the progeny of broos mating with the
aurochs. They have bovine heads with forward-facing horns,
stand over 9’ tall, and have short shaggy red hides. They might
not be identifiable as broo (Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes, page 264)
instead of bull-men were it not for the fact that they drip with
puss and boils from the diseases they carry. Many have obvious
Chaotic mutations: abnormally oversized or withered limbs,
snake-like lower bodies, oddly asymmetric faces, overlarge noses
dripping mucus, or bat-like ears. Some of those mutations are
advantageous such as an extra pair of arms, tough leathery skin,
and the ability to spit acid, venom, or fire.
Any encounter with a Chaotic horror frightens most people,
and the PCs need to win a contest to stand their ground (see
Sartar Companion, page 105). PCs who have no other Ability
can use either their Red Cow Clan keyword — the Red Cow have
courage as a virtue — or any divine affinity.

BERGILMER’S STEAD
Bergilmer’s Stead lies atop Borden Hill. Borden Hill is at once
familiar from Red Cow Fort, but at the same differs because
it lacks Ulanin’s later earthworks and the buildings the PCs
are familiar with. There are a number of halls with barns,
cattle byres; much like an Orlanthi village. The quality of
workmanship is poor, the roofs leak, doors do not fit properly,
much of the wood is poorly seasoned and rotting, and the
floors are uneven. In many places there are temporary repairs
using hides. The barking of dogs makes it clear this is not an
Orlanthi settlement, and each household has a number of the
giant two-headed dogs. A giant-sized palisade wall, thirty feet
high, surrounds the village.
There are some eighty mountain giants (see page XX) in
Bergilmer’s clan. Only about a quarter of these are children
because the giants have a low birth rate. Of the sixty adults,
about a dozen full-time warriors form Bergilmer’s household.
These giants are well equipped with bronze spears, cuirasses and
vambraces — even if the workmanship is crude.
The secret to the bronze implements, and wooden buildings,
are the thralls Bergilmer keeps in his ‘castle.’ The thralls are
Vingkotlings, captured from the Orgorvaltes and the neighboring
Jorganostelli and Koroltes tribes. Bergilmer forces them to labor
for him. Those who do not, he adds to the pot. Those who try
to escape are hunted down with dogs, and become ingredients
for the stew.

Playing the Game

33

Gochbadun confronts the cattle raiders stealing his prize bull
The PCs might meet one of Bergilmer’s patrols on their way
to the Wandle’s Pool. Consider pacing here though. If they had to
fight raiders in Arfritha Vale running another fight straight away
might fatigue your players, so consider allowing the PCs to simply
avoid Bergilmer’s patrols and go straight to Wandle’s Pool.
Bergilmer’s patrols consist of a group of 2-3 mountain giants
and as many two-headed dogs. The giants drive intruders off, or
if outnumbered try to alert the stead and seek its shelter. They
are aggressive, contrary, and difficult, and attempts to negotiate
with them are Very High. They are slow-witted and it is possible
to trick or fool (Moderate or High) a patrol, though their taste
for human blood and flesh means the only way into the stead is
in a bag as lunch.
The giants are armed with eighteen-foot long spears, tipped
with a bronze point, and balanced by a butt-spike. At a distance,
they pick up and throw large stones or small boulders. The
dogs are large, the size of a small pony and their neck splits into
two heads, each of which acts independently of the other. The
dogs tend to be fight alongside their masters, running in and
biting whomever their master is fighting or just equalizing any
opponents’ numbers advantage.
They have a poor grasp of tactics and do not fight well as a
group, relying on strength and size to wade into their opponents.
They won’t pursue retreating foes, but anyone defeated is captured,
thrown into a sack, and taken back to the stead as dinner later.

34

A giant is a Very High resistance in a fight. Even those giants
who spend their days herding livestock present a considerable
danger at twenty feet tall, regardless of being armed with a wooden
club instead of a spear. Remember that the two-headed dog acts
as a Secondary Contestant in the fight (see HeroQuest Glorantha).
Use a Nearly Impossible resistance for Bergilmer himself. The
best way for the PCs to overcome Bergilmer is by use of Multiple
Opponent Penalties. Set things up so that the PCs can fight him,
with the NPCs in the party focusing on the other giants. By
co-coordinating their attacks so that their best fighter wins the
highest penalty, and judicious use of assists for those struggling,
a group should be able to defeat Bergilmer.
Bergilmer the Giant Chieftain

Bergilmer is big and smart for a giant. Both those attributes led
to him organizing his kin to take land and craftsmen from his
human neighbors. Of course, some of his kin are too stupid and
argumentative to see the benefits of the ‘civilization’ Bergilmer
has brought them, so he has to crack skulls every so often.
Bergilmer is shrewd enough to know that the Vingkotlings may
gather a large enough host against him one day, but for now he is
content to exploit the opportunities living off the crumbs from
their table offers him. He has too much anger and hatred for
‘men’ to learn to live side-by-side in peace with them.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

Bergilmer the Giant Chieftain
Keywords: Mountain Giant
Magic: j
Look: Forty-foot tall giant, patch over one eye

The Wooing of Wandle

The Creek does not exist at this time. The Heort Creek is not
present either, and Borden Hill is an isolated rise, but the nymph
Wandle is a small lake just to the north of Borden Hill. Remind
the PCs that Wandle is the nymph who lives in the Heort Creek
and is friendly to the clan, if they have forgotten.
The Wandle’s Pool is broadly circular and about 500’ in
diameter. Trees cluster along the shoreline, and a narrow beach
surrounds most of the lake. The water seems calm and placid
most of the time. The nymph Wandle is usually submerged, but
she might be encountered bathing on the shoreline.
The entrance to the caves giving access to Borden Hill lie
under the waters of the lake. Whilst the way in is submerged, the
tunnel away from the entrance rises above the water table and
has breathable air after a short stretch.
There are two ways into the tunnel — the first is to swim, the
second is to enlist the help of the nymph Wandle.
Swimming down to the tunnel is a hard as the water is deep
and dark, the entrance hard to find. Panicking whilst searching
for the exit tunnel from the cave is a real risk. This has a High
resistance. In addition, Wandle is likely to be displeased with
people swimming in her waters without being “nice to her” first.
She will use strong currents to send swimmers off course, and
weeds to bind their legs and limbs hoping to drown them. In this
case diving down to the entrance becomes a Very High resistance.
If the PCs enlist Wandle’s assistance she will use her magic to
help each PC breathe water and swim down to the cave with them
one at a time, holding their hands. Of course for some paranoid
players slipping into the water might still be an act of faith!
By simply waiting on the shore, the PCs will eventually
encounter Wandle (see The Coming Storm p.XX). The lake waters
coalesce into a human female form and she strides out of the lake.
She is unabashedly naked, and her figure is voluptuous. At the
same time, she is unsettling for her watery body flows as much as
moves, with ripples forming across her skin. When she turns, she
just re-distributes her fluid form instead of swiveling on the spot.
She laughs sweetly if anyone seems disturbed by this.
Shy mortals blush to see me lave,
Wetly undulating limbs awoken!
By offering some trifling token,
Would you in my waters bathe?
To enlist Wandle’s aid the PCs must give her a gift. She will
happily explain this, but coquettishly refuse to explain what gift
would be suitable. It is up to the PCs what they offer but some
options are:
• Seduction: Wandle is lonely. She is also sensuous and would
happily take a lover from amongst the PCs. Seducing Wandle
is a contest. On any Victory, Wandle and her lover disappear

below the water to consummate their relationship. When she
and her lover return she will guide them to the cave.
There are some long-term consequences to becoming
Wandle’s lover. The first is that when the PCs return from
the Other Side, the PC will find he has developed gills and
can Breathe Water. Treat this as a Directed Improvement
(HeroQuest Glorantha) and add a new Ability under the
PCs Red Cow Clan keyword. In addition, Wandle will try to
pursue a relationship with the PC, seeming to be drawn to
him, and flirt any time they are near Heort Creek. Though
she has no idea this was the PC she met on the Other Side,
she will find herself attracted to him.
• Gifts: Wandle likes shiny glittery things so torcs, rings,
swords, spearheads, or armor all makes a suitable offering.
One gift will cover the whole party. The gift needs to be
either a named Ability or a permanent removal of an Ability
that represents the item given. The PC gains Breathe Water
as a Directed Improvement.
• Oaths: Wandle will also take oaths from the PCs to act
as her protectors. When they return from the Other Side,
the PC is expected to act as a guardian of the Creek and
its tributaries. The PC has a Water Rune tattoo w on their
left breast as well as the Flaw of Must Protect the Creek. The
Game Master should invoke this Flaw if the PCs’ action
or inaction threatens the Creek or its tributaries. Remove
the PCs’ lowest Flaw if they have three already. If it strains
credibility for the PC to lose their lowest Flaw or the player
does not want to, they are unable to take the oath. The PC
will gain the friendship of Orstalor Spearlord if he sees that
tattoo — he recognizes a fellow defender of the Creek.
• Through the tunnel: The tunnel from Wandle Lake leads up
into Borden Hill, twisting and turning. It is a tight squeeze,
where the PCs must crawl and slide. The tunnel leads
into a cave complex beneath Borden Hill. Water has worn
passageways through the sandstone, but in places it has been
worked with pick antlers, and even improved into rooms or
staircases. Without instructions from Wandle on the route to
climb, the PCs realize they would become lost easily.
There are escaped thralls living in the tunnels closest to the
surface. They cower at first, but soon begin to crowd around
the PCs, begging them to tell them where they came from
and if a way out lies in that direction. They will be shocked to
discover the PCs want to go into the castle and try to dissuade
them, begging the PCs to leave with them.
The thralls could be allies to the PCs; they could tell the
PCs where Gochbadun is and how to work the gates. However,
the thralls are so cowed the PCs will need to persuade them to
join them. On a Major or Complete Defeat the thrall not only
does not want to help, he or she decides to inform on the PCs
in the hope of winning Bergilmer’s favor. The PCs might come
up with other cunning ruses to move about the camp, such as
disguising themselves as thralls. Given the low intelligence of
most of the giants, such schemes might well work.
One echo to bring in is that some of the escaped thralls
are bronze-smiths who made the weapons and armor for the
giants. They are hamstrung; their crippling reflecting the
mutilating of Willandring in Red Cow Fort.

Playing the Game

35

The thralls can show the PCs the way into the fort. An
upward tunnel emerges on the east side of Borden Hill at the
bottom of a shaft. Climbing the shaft is easy, giving access to
the giant’s castle.
The castle is busy with giants going about their dayto-day business and thralls scurrying back and forth on
errands. It is safest for the PCs to try to steal Gochbadun at
first light, when the stead is still asleep and they should be
able to move around.
In the Byre

By luck or judgment, the PCs need to find their way to
Gochbadun’s stall. Once they have located the great bull, the next
problem is how to herd him. Gochbadun is eighteen feet tall,
about thirty feet long, ill-tempered and breathes fire. Tethering
him by the great bronze ring in his nose and leading him out of
the byre is a contest. (If they have no other Ability, a PC can use
their Red Cow Clan keyword for familiarity with herding cattle.)
The PCs can work together on this, in which case treat it as a
Group Simple Contest. Failure indicates that Gochbadun begins
to bellow and stomp his hooves, the sound of which is certain to
wake the stead. It also means physical injury to the defeated PCs
as Gochbadun tramples, gores, or breathes fire on them.
Following a failure, allow the PCs a second chance to lasso
Gochbadun or otherwise bring him under control, but this time
increase the resistance one step.
Out of the Gates

If they have Gochbadun, they need to leave the stead by the
gates. If they cannot capture him then they can escape back the
way they came.
Two giants guard the gates. In addition, the gates are
enormous and usually opened and shut by giants so it will take
several PCs working together to shift them. (If one of the PCs
has a herding Ability, they might be able to use Gochbadun to
break down the gates for them.)
Treat this as a Group Extended Contest and use the
Climactic Scene Consequence Table. Whatever the PCs’ plan,
have Bergilmer join the fight as the PCs try to put their plan into
motion, bellowing in rage that the PCs are stealing his prize bull.
Try to orchestrate events so your PCs’ take on Bergilmer and
treat the struggle with the other giants as off-stage if you don’t
have too many PCs to make the fight with Bergilmer interesting.
In addition, you can treat the attempt to break down the door
as a contest as well, especially if you have PCs who cannot do
much in a fight.
Captured

If the giants capture the PCs, Bergilmer will decide their fate.
Bergilmer is inclined to eat them, but offers them a chance to
prove to him how they could be more useful. This is a Simple
Contest for each PC to persuade Bergilmer to keep them as
a slave. Give a Situational Modifier of +3 to +6 for anyone
proposing a civilized skill such as carpentry or metalwork as his
or her value to the giant chieftain.

36

If a PC fails then Bergilmer skins them and puts them in
his cooking pot. The PC will return to the mundane plane at
Ulaninstead, but suffers damage at their level of Defeat from the
trauma of this event.
Provided they are not eaten, the PCs are enslaved. They are
stripped of weapons and armor, their hair shorn, and a leather
collar placed around their neck. Then they are put to work
in the stead. Enslaved PCs can of course hope to escape. If
left unwatched they may be able to slip back out of the stead
through the secret tunnel and should be able to escape crosscountry to Ulaninstead.
The PCs might try to organize a slave rebellion in order to
effect their escape. A key danger here is from traitorous slaves
informing on them.

ESCAPE
Once the PCs have left the stead they need to escape back across
country to Ulaninstead. We recommend treating this as an
Arduous Auto-Success (see HeroQuest Glorantha), describing how
the PCs need to keep moving day and night to escape the pursuing
giants who track the PCs with their two-headed dogs. As they
reach the point of exhaustion and question if they can keep up
the pace, they realize that their pursuers have given up the chase.
If the PCs reach Ulaninstead with their prize, Gochbadun,
Orgorvale Summer puts on a lavish victory feast for her husband,
his sons, and thanes.
From here, the PCs return to the mundane plane.

RETURNING HOME
The return from Ulaninstead follows the reverse route, heading
down the Stream to Clearwine and from there through Colymar
Lands and the Arfritha Vale to Jonstown before returning to
Red Cow Fort. The simplest way to handle this is as an Arduous
Auto-Success.
If the PCs succeeded, then cows giving birth over the coming
year will give strong, large calves, with a ruddy coat. The PCs will
be honored by the clan as Auroch Bringers, and welcome in any
stead during the coming year.
Treat the Victory level from the fight with Bergilmer the giant
at the gates as bolstering the Red Cow’s Wealth Resource next
Sea Season when the calves are born (see HeroQuest Glorantha
page 125). For the PCs treat it as a Benefit of Victory when using
the Red Cow Clan keyword to obtain favors from the clan.
If the PCs fail, the attempt to perform the heroquest is ruined
for this year. Only normal cows will be born to the clan, worse,
one in seven calves will be stillborn. On a Major Defeat, or
worse, then broos will also attack the clan in the coming year,
trying to impregnate the cattle — the PCs’ failure has weakened
the world and let Chaos in.
Treat the Consequence of Defeat as a penalty to the clan’s
Magic Resource (Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes, page 201). In
addition, apply the Consequence of Defeat as a penalty to the
PCs if they try an influence the clan — until they can turn their
fortune around by succeeding in helping the clan.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 1

• Chapter 2 •

1618

CONFLICTS

THE HERO WARS

FEUD WITH THE
EMERALD SWORD CLAN

SEA SEASON

The Red Cow and the Emerald Sword clans are old enemies.
Three years ago many Red Cow clan folk died in the ‘Tormakt’s
Farm Massacre.’ A group of Dinacoli raiders burned a hall,
killing women and children. Kangharl Black-Brow has always
wanted blood vengeance against Korlmhyor the Swift of the
Emerald Sword clan and never accepted Broddi’s settlement
with Duruvan.
Last year, Kangharl led a cattle raid against the Emerald
Sword resulting in the death of Torath Silk-Breeches, an
Emerald Sword man. Broddi Strong-Kin, eager to avoid a feud,
offered the Emerald Sword clan compensation.
Rostakus Twice-Outlawed of the Emerald Sword clan was
keen to use the incident as an excuse for trouble; he called the
offer an insult and Duruvan the Fat declared a blood feud with
the Red Cow.
Rostakus Twice-Outlawed used the feud as an excuse to fight
a duel with the old Red Cow clan champion Jordarn the Clash.
Rostakus killed Jordarn. This made the Red Cow thanes more
determined to seek blood vengeance.
The so-called Silk-Breeches feud is still raging.

THE RING
Darna Longcoat calls in Salissa Three-Husbands’ debts to have
her goad the ring and the housecarls to further the blood feud
with the Emerald Sword. Salissa focuses her efforts on Kangharl
Black-Brow. Salissa also pushes Farandar Orendalsson to raid,
and asks him to convince rebels such as Orstalor Spearlord to
join them. She chides Farandar for his failure to oppose the
Lunar collaborators of the ‘Fat Tribe.’
Broddi Strong-Kin calls for peace, and talks of the women
arranging a settlement. Darna, playing both sides, tells Broddi
she will ask Griselda Gray-Tresses to weave peace with the
Emerald Sword Women’s Circle.
Kullina the Fat supports Salissa, despising the Emerald
Sword for turning to the Red Moon, but she has no desire for
the Red Cow to be exhausted by a feud when they should be
supporting the rebellion against the Empire.

The feud that subsided in the winter sparks up again. Kangharl
Black-Brow encourages Jarstak Bristle-Beard to raid the Emerald
Sword clan. He goes despite Broddi failing to condone the
raid (see Jarstak’s Raid). Following a retaliatory Dinacoli raid,
Lhankpentos the Blind is killed (see The Burning of Lhankpentos
the Blind). Kangharl Black-Brow becomes leader of the
Tormakting bloodline.
Kethaela is in anarchy, but High King Broyan continues to
hold out in Whitewall. Fazzur Wideread begins massing troops
around Wilmskirk for an invasion of Heortland. The Empire
recruits mercenaries both for the fighting in the south and to
backfill garrisons in Sartar depleted by the war effort. Recruiters
visit Red Cow Fort and a number of young men and women sign
up for a ‘life of adventure.’

FIRE SEASON
Broddi tries to arrange peace. First, he goes to the women to see
if they can accomplish it. If they cannot then Gordius Silverus
settles the feud for them. Kangharl rails against Broddi for
negotiating a peace settlement.
The Dundealos tribe rebels again; the tribe is disbanded,
and most members are killed, enslaved, or forced to flee to
their kin among the Pol-Joni. Broddi takes this as confirmation
of the appeasement strategy and batters his opponents with
this ‘evidence’ of what happens to those who openly resist the
Empire.

DARK SEASON
Queen Ivartha tries to recruit people to join her for the Wolf
Hunt, an Odaylan Holy Day on Freezeday, Disorder Week, of
Dark Season. It is considered lucky to kill a wolf on this day, and
Queen Ivartha often goes hunting Telmori in Stagland.

STORM SEASON
Broddi re-organizes the ring and Griselda Gray-Tresses replaces
Salissa Three-Husbands who Broddi feels failed to support his
attempts to end the feud.
Kullina the Fat takes supplies to Enastara the Red, who is
hiding in the Indigo Mountains.

1618

37

At the One Day rites, Ashart Dusk-Eater’s alynx saunters into
the ceremony, and stands upright on its hind legs, raising one
paw. It then speaks to the assembled priests and god-talkers:
Eleven are the number of the lights,
Eleven stars in Orlanth’s Ring,
Ten are the virtuous stars,
Nine of orange, one pale blue,
The Dragon’s Head is set in the ring,
The green star is its ornament.
Everyone is confused by the cat’s poetry. Obviously, it is a message
from the gods, but Orlanth’s Ring only has eight stars, not eleven.

IMPORTANT NPCS
• Jarstak Bristle-Beard
• Rostakus Twice-Outlawed
• Broddi Strong-Kin
• Kangharl Black-Brow
• Lhankpentos the Blind
• Jaranil the Thunder
• Ortossi Ketilsson
• Salissa Three-Husbands
• Darna Longcoat
• Kernalda Other-Ways
• Griselda Gray-Tresses
• Duruvan the Fat
• Kallesra Sees-Tomorrow
• Korlmhyor the Swift
• Jomes Hostralos
• Ivartha the Skinner

38

THE MISSING
BEGINS WITH
Broddi Strong-Kin has summoned the PCs to his hall in Red Cow
Fort. Lhankpentos the Blind is there, his son Arlest and Kangharl
Black-Brow nearby to steady and guide the old man. Standing to
one side is Jaranil the Thunder, the leader of the chief ’s housecarls
and Kernalda Other-Ways beside him. A number of the clan’s
thanes and ring members mill about the hearth.
“A number of children are missing from Red Cow Fort,”
Broddi begins. “This has happened at a bad time. The ring is
busy with the sickness, we have yet to find a cause or cure, and
the medicine from Jerra’s Healing Broth Cauldron is stretched
thin amongst the thanes,” he tells them, referring to the fever
that has affected many people in the fort. “We are feuding with
the Emerald Sword, so this sickness weakens us at the worst
time. Jaranil has far too few men left to patrol the borders, let
alone stop an attack.” Broddi nods in the direction of Jaranil,
who appears pale and sweaty as he too has the fever that rages
through Red Cow Fort. “As you seem unaffected by this sickness,
we need you to find the children, and bring them home safely.”
Jaranil leans heavily on his spear as he speaks, “The sickness
seems to have started here in Red Cow Fort and has spread to
the villages up and down the Heort Creek. Because of the threat
from the Emerald Sword we have asked people from Red Cow
Fort and the villages along the Heort Creek not to travel to the
villages along the Danda Creek. The people there seem free of
this illness, for now, and I need their strength to patrol along the
Creek. If the Emerald Sword find out how sick we are, they will
surely come in force.”
Lhankpentos the Blind addresses the PCs. “The children
were taken from my bloodline, from the household of one

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 2

of my kinsmen in the fort, Jostharl Three-Sticks. My own
grandnephews and grandnieces are amongst those taken. Please,
find and bring back my grandchildren.”
Lhankpentos nods to his son, who reaches into a chest and pulls
out silver fibulae, one for each PC. “These have value in themselves,”
Lhankpentos tells them, “but also any in the Tormakting bloodline
who see them, will know that we are in your debt.”
Kangharl is red in the face, and pacing. He blurts out: “The
disease shows the gods and ancestors are angry with us, because
we have not taken blood vengeance upon the sons and daughters
of Dinacol Hard-Rule. My wife and daughter died at their hands
and their souls cry out for revenge.”
Lhankpentos tells him: “Killing leads to more killing, there is
always another way. I see no signs that this is why the gods have
turned their backs on us.”
Kangharl storms out, saying to the PCs: “I pity you being
sent on this duty, when killing our enemies awaits.”
Lhankpentos turns to Broddi, commenting: “When I am
gone my bloodline will elect him patriarch, my old friend. He
will not sit easily with your peace.”
Broddi sends for the clan’s treasure chest. From it he takes
Voriof ’s Crozier and hands it to the PCs’ leader. “This is Voriof ’s
Crozier, it helps in finding the missing, both cattle and kin,”
he tells them. “Use it to bring our children safely home.” With
the Crozier the PCs can draw upon the Red Cow’s Morale
Community Resource, for the duration of the episode.

CAST
Broddi Strong-Kin, Lhankpentos the Blind, Jaranil the Thunder,
Ustarna Try-Much, Leikorl the Shadow, Ostling Spotted-Fur,
Ashart Dusk-Eater, Rostakus Twice-Outlawed

SITUATION
Farnantyr the Handsome a young Tormakting cottar stumbled
across the tunnels that run under Red Cow Fort. Entering them
in search of adventure and plunder, he instead found a pool
sacred to Wandle, the nymph of the Heort Creek. Bored with
her current lovers, the promiscuous Wandle flirted with the
handsome young visitor. He returned her affections and captured
the heart of Wandle. He became her lover, and idled away time
when he should have been watching the herds with her.

CREEK TURN
Creek Turn village is the Emerald Sword clan village close
to both the Red Cow and Wulfsland. It has often been at
the forefront of raids and feuds across the Creek. The
village sits at a bend in the Creek, giving the village its
name. The village is visible from Red Cow Fort, and the
residents of the village can see the fort in return. During
troubled times Red Cow Fort is a looming presence in the
minds of the locals. There are a hundred people at Creek
Turn, of whom twenty-five muster for the clan militia.

However, Farnantyr explored more of the tunnels. The
tunnels extend for miles and he found a passage that led him
under the Creek itself. Surfacing he found himself across the
Creek in Emerald Sword lands. He spied upon and became
infatuated with a Creek Turn village girl, Mirani Speaks-ToMoon. He contrived to meet her when she was washing clothes;
she in turn fell for the handsome youth despite his clan.
Filled with love, Farnantyr avoided Wandle’s pool when he
snuck through her tunnels, determined to keep himself for this
true love.
Despite the feud between the two clans, the two continued
their relationship in secret.
Jealous and spurned, Wandle took her revenge, removing her
protection against diseases and parasites in her waters for the Red
Cow so that any who drank it came down with a fever.
The obvious reason that villages along the Danda Creek
remain healthy is because they do not drink the waters of the
Heort Creek. Remember, in Glorantha the causes of disease
are not those of our earthly world, so the simple notion that
if people drinking from the same water source all get sick, the
water is polluted, is not as obvious to the NPCs.
The Lunars in Red Cow Fort have not gotten sick either.
Their gods protect them against the low-grade fever found in
the drinking water. Estavia GoldEyes has been offering healing
at the Citadel, taking in as many as she can. Many people are
grateful to the Seven Mothers for their help. If the PCs suggest
the Empire is behind this, trying to win converts, Lunar haters
will probably adopt the idea, but others will be more cautious,
saying that Estavia is a good woman.
When this was not enough to bring her lover back to her,
Wandle kidnapped a number of the young children. She gave
them the ability to breathe underwater and they now play in
the depths of the tunnels under Red Cow Fort; the children are
happy, but Wandle plans to keep them.
This episode takes place in Sea Season.

LOCATIONS
Red Cow Fort, Creek Turn, Grave Hill

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS
RED COW FORT
Eastside

Lhankpentos and his son take the PCs to Jostharl Three-Sticks’
household in the Eastside of Red Cow Fort. When the PCs enter
the compound, they can immediately see that a lot of people
here seem to be sick. At first, no one comes to greet them, but
when Lhankpentos calls out Jostharl shuffles out.
Jostharl is obviously sick; his skin is pallid and feverish.
“Lhankpentos, thank you for coming,” says Jostharl. He turns
to the PCs, “I am afraid you will find our hospitality somewhat
limited, my family are all unwell with this fever. But please come
to my hall, I can at least offer you water to quench your thirst.”
Jostharl leads them into his hall. The household sick are here
as is Ustarna Try-Much who is tending to them, mopping brows,

1618

39

providing damp cloths and water to cool the fever, and getting
everyone to drink a herb-laced drink to ease the fever.
“It burns itself out after a few days,” she tells Lhankpentos
and the PCs, “and no one has died yet. But it seems to strike
again and again. This household was one of the first to become
sick and they keep getting ill. I usually don’t expect people to
fall ill with the same illness again in such quick succession.” She
looks up at the PCs, “I do what I can, but the men are needed
for planting season, and for patrols against Emerald Sword raids.
And now the children…”
A handsome young man, Farnantyr, helps Jostharl to sit, and
then brings Lhankpentos and the PCs water to wash and drink.
Farnantyr then retires. Jostharl says, “That young man has been
a tower of strength, he hasn’t gotten sick once.”
Jostharl explains that with most of the adults sick the children
were playing practically unsupervised when some went missing
(“no, none of the children have fallen ill”). There were no cries of
alarm; nothing to suggest anything was awry. As Jostharl speaks a
number of the fathers weep for their missing children, obviously
overwhelmed by what has happened.
There are 24 adults and 26 children in the household. Seven
of the children are missing. None of the children have fallen sick
(Wandle loves the children and so still maintains her protection
for them).
Suspicious PCs may want to speak to Farnantyr. He genuinely
has no idea why he has not fallen sick, or where the children
are, so the PCs will get nothing from him. He is worried that
someone will find out that he has been seeing an Emerald Sword
girl — after all the clans are feuding — but getting him to admit
to that is a Very High contest.
If his relationship is discovered, Farnantyr begs the PCs not to
tell Broddi, because “people won’t understand, we love each other.”
If the PCs do report the situation to Broddi he will not
want it to continue illicitly, for fear of trouble from either clan
toward the lovers, but will realize that settling any peace with
a marriage could turn this into an opportunity and so will be
kind towards Farnantyr.
However, if the PCs find out the truth, and tell Farnantyr
they intend to report it but leave him behind at his household,
he will use the tunnels to flee to Creek Turn.
The PCs may question the remaining children to see if they
know what happened to their fellows. They know very little. The
missing group was a gang, both boys and girls. The favorite games
involved chasing mice and other vermin with the cats in and out of
the root cellars. Their leader was an older boy named, Baranwulf.
He was fearless and always getting into scrapes or breaking a limb.
A PC might decide to search the root cellars. That will take
some time, as the entrance to the caves is hidden amidst stored
vegetables where a child could easily worm through but an adult
would struggle. Finding the entrance to the caves under Red
Cow Fort is a Very High resistance.
For pacing you might want to have Ustarna approach the
PCs before their search is complete.
If the PCs do find the entrance then they can explore the
tunnels. Broddi will be shocked that one of the clan’s secrets
has been exposed, and have the PCs swear an oath not to reveal
it. “This is one of the clan’s greatest secrets. When you become

40

Auroch Bringers, by going on the heroquest of Stealing of the
Giant’s Cows, you will understand why. But that day is not today,
and you must keep this hidden.”
There is no manpower to search the tunnels other than the PCs.
If the PCs search it is unlikely they will find the children,
who are hidden underwater in a deep pool. This is Nearly
Impossible, unless the PCs can breathe underwater. If a PC can
breathe underwater it is just High. If a PC finds the children
early, simply cut to the confrontation with Wandle.
The Gods’ Protection

Ustarna approaches the PCs. “The gods have surely withdrawn
their protection from the Red Cow, otherwise people would
not be getting sick. We must find out why,” she says. “I suspect
when we find the answer to this sickness, we will find where the
children have gone. At Grave Hill, Many-Breath will speak to
us. I will fetch Kullina and a cow to sacrifice. You must fetch
Ashart Dusk-Eater. Go ask Leikorl in the Great Hall, he will
know where to find him. Meet me at Lightning Lodge at sunset.”
It is possible the PCs will question this. After all, aren’t the
ring and Queen Ivartha investigating the sickness? Shouldn’t
they continue the search for the children?
Ustarna simply says that she feels this to be true. If the PCs
still resist, she turns to the Orlanthi PC with the highest divine
rune affinity, and says, “What is Orlanth’s promise to the Earth?
Sweet Green Woman, Look at me! I am come, the Conqueror!
None can stand before me. I am yours, what Dark shall I fight?
Perhaps you are no Wind Lord, but I offer you the chance to call
upon my services if you will do this for me.”
If the Orlanthi PC wants to refuse Ustarna’s call it is a contest
with a Moderate resistance against his divine rune affinity. If the
PC succeeds they can refuse Ustarna, but any Benefit of Victory
should be applied as a penalty to their divine rune affinity, until
they show better Orlanthi behavior (see Acting Like Your God,
Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes, page 80).
If the PCs spurn Ustarna she leaves in search of help from
Leikorl and Ostling directly. The Game Master can have
her return later with additional information, if the PCs are
struggling, but she will remind the PCs that they failed to heed
her call in the future.
The Shadow and the Wolf

Leikorl the Shadow is in Broddi’s Hall. Queen Ivartha left both
Leikorl and Ostling here when they fell sick and has gone to
Jonstown to get help from the House of Peace. When the PCs
find them it is obvious that both men are ill, and that both watch
each other intently.
“He is watching and waiting, hoping that I will die,” Leikorl
tells them. “Or get weak enough that I can’t hold my sword to
defend myself,” he says, lifting the sword that rests across his
knees. “I killed his mother. This is her skin.” He indicates the
cloak he wears, wolf fur with a wolf ’s head hood.
“Sartar’s treaty binds me as a hostage, Shadow,” Ostling
snarls, “though I would be happy if Jogar Sog had taken all your
scalp.” He nods towards the chunk gouged out of Leikorl’s scalp.
Ask the PCs how they feel upon meeting a Telmori. Most Red
Cow hate the Telmori, so most PCs ought to hate them too, with

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 2

no other experience. If anyone wants to overcome that prejudice
they need to overcome their own Red Cow Clan keyword in a
contest. Leikorl takes a dislike to anyone who seems sympathetic
to the Telmori, so any Benefit of Victory should also be applied
as a penalty to interacting with him.
If the PCs ask for help finding Ashart, they need to convince
Leikorl to help them. If they fail, he agrees to help, but demands
that one of the PCs remain with Ostling, “a hostage to the
hostage,” to ensure no betrayal. If they succeed, Leikorl will tell
Ostling to come with them, “So I can keep an eye on you, and
you can be close to your mother.” One of the PCs should see
Ostling spit on the ground when Leikorl turns his back.
It should be clear to the PCs that both Leikorl and Ostling
are sick. They ride horses because they are not capable of walking
to Grave Hill, and neither looks fit to fight.
The Hidden Priest

Ashart is hiding in Green Meadows; it is a short distance from
Red Cow Fort and Leikorl takes the PCs there. The priest and
his wife are hiding in the loft of a hay barn. Leikorl whistles three
times, waits for a two-whistle response, and then whistles once
more. Ashart pops his head out: “Ah Shadow, what a delight.
Ostling, good to see you as well,” he says. He looks at Ostling
and nods toward Leikorl, “Not killed him yet then.”
Ashart asks the PCs to explain what has been happening in
Red Cow Fort. Once he understands Ustarna’s plan he says,
“Let’s hope the gods can help, though they may not know the
answer themselves.”
Ashart is obviously sick. He takes one of the horses from
Green Meadows for the trip. But he brushes aside any concerns
for his health.
As the PCs gather to leave Farandar Orendalsson approaches
them. He too appears sick. He speaks briefly with Ashart then
addresses the PCs.
“Kill those Lunar bastards at Grave Hill. They stop us
conducting worship of Orlanth on our own land. This affront to
our honor has gone too long unavenged. I would welcome your
blow against the Empire, and count you afterwards amongst
those who have proven themselves to the rebellion.”

GRAVE HILL
Lightning Lodge

Ustarna meets the PCs at Lightning Lodge. The stead is a ruin,
razed by the Empire years ago. Ashart looks mournfully at the
buildings. “I was happy here once,” he tells them, “I remember
such laughter with Rangard Blacktooth, the old priest here, and
the herds that once grazed these sacred hills.” He wipes a tear
from his eye, “But the Empire took all that away.”
“Grave Hill will be guarded by the Empire, perhaps a halfdozen soldiers. Doblain Dogeaters,” Ashart spits as he mentions
their name. “Worship of Many-Breath at the Hill is forbidden,
for we use Orlanth’s rites. To get access to the temple we will
need to kill them.” He looks over at Leikorl and Ostling, “This
work will fall to you. We are too sick to fight.”
Ashart reaches into a bag and pulls out wooden masks. They
are carved and painted with images of the Thunder Brothers,

Hedkoranth, Finovan, Vinga, Yavor Lightning, Destor, Tatouth,
Vanganth, Helamakt, and Desemborth. “Wear these masks,”
Ashart tells them, “So that the Lunars cannot recognize your
faces, if any escape. Of course, it would be best if you did not let
any escape…”
Ask the PCs how they feel about the Empire, which has
razed their sacred village, and blocked access to their holy places.
Ask them how they feel about killing Lunar soldiers. It is possible
some PCs are sympathetic to the Empire, or at least not hostile.
They may be in a real quandary, for what Ashart is suggesting
means an act of rebellion against the Empire, which carries the
sentence of death if discovered. Do any of the PCs balk at this
and abandon the attempt to petition the aid of the gods?
Dogeaters

A patrol of a dozen Dogeaters guards Grave Hill. They are on
detachment from Red Cow Fort, bivouacked near the foot of
the hill itself. At any one time a pair of bored guards keeps watch
on the causeway approaching the hill, the others sit around the
camp tending to equipment, sleeping or gambling.
Judge the Dogeaters state of alert from the Pass-Fail cycle.
If the resistance is Easy or Moderate then the Dogeaters do not
expect an attack, discipline is lax, and the guards un-watchful
and distracted. If the resistance is High or worse, then the
commander of the patrol is enforcing discipline and the patrol
are alert and ready for trouble.
The PCs can sneak fairly close to Grave Hill without detection
— this is an area of large barrow mounds, built by the Vingkotling
ancestors — but the last 100 yards or so is open ground.
Let the players come up with a plan and execute it. If the PCs
turn to the NPCs for advice Ashart tells them, “You are the ones
who must do the killing, you must choose how it is done. Once
the word is given on what, the how is always the job of those
with skin in the game.”
If the Game Master decides to run this as an Extended
Contest, the NPCs can offer assists to struggling PCs. Ustarna
can heal, even in battle, Ashart can summon winds or direct
lightning, Leikorl can pick off opponents with arrows, and
Ostling may send his wolf brother to help. Make it clear such
actions exhaust the NPCs.
If the PCs lose the contest, then Ashart, Leikorl, and Ostling
have sufficient strength to cover their retreat and help them
escape. Ashart whips up a windstorm and Leikorl peppers them
with arrows, whilst everyone else runs. Ustarna will help any
wounded to safety and then heal them.
In that outcome, Ashart tells the PCs to return to Red Cow
Fort, “There will be no answers from the gods.”
On anything but a Major Victory or better, some Dogeaters
will escape. Leikorl offers to hunt them down and asks if any PCs
want to join him and Ostling. He will only take one of the PCs if
any offer. The events of the hunt are left to the Game Master, but
Leikorl is a brutal killer and the Game Master should emphasize
his nature to the accompanying PC. Ostling by contrast may
show mercy. This may surprise a PC who sees the Telmori as the
savage killers, not the Cinsina.
Ashart and Ustarna conduct the ceremony atop Grave Hill.
They perform the rituals to open the sacred space, so that the

1618

41

The wyter speaks grim words of
prophecy:
The Hero Wars begin,
A great evil comes from the north,
Evil’s steed, Death on leathery wings,
Brother shall turn against brother,
Mother against child,
All in hope to escape the Hunger.
Afterwards Many-Breath’s shade
sinks through the earth of Grave
Hill, back to his resting place.
“This is a foretelling of the future,
of the Hero Wars,” Ashart tells them.
“I must travel to the Old Wind
Temple with this news.”
Despite his illness, Ashart takes
a horse and rides to the Orlanth
Temple at Old Wind, leaving the
PCs to return to Red Cow Fort.

RETURN TO
RED COW FORT

The Red Cow Orlanth and Ernalda Temples at Grave Hill
Other Side and this world are one, and gods might walk with
men. The PCs join in the chants and the calls, for there are no
other initiates to do the work.
Whilst Ustarna holds the red cow steady, Ashart slits its
throat. As the beast falls to its knees, and then the ground,
Ashart carefully watches the spray of blood, pointing out
spirals and directions to Ustarna. Then Ashart slices open the
cow’s belly and pulls out its entrails. Arm deep in gore he sifts
through them, examining them for marks. Signaling to one of
the PCs to help, he takes the entrails and offal to the altar atop
Grave Hill and burns them in a fire there, watching the smoke
intently as it rises.
He steps aside and confers with Ustarna before turning back
to the PCs.
“The gods have spoken. Wandle is angry and has removed
her protection from the Red Cow. Her water will not be safe to
drink until we can find the reason for her anger and appease her.”
As Ashart prepares to close the sacred space, a ghostly figure
strides up to the hilltop. He wears an ancient bronze panoply
and carries an axe and shield of antique design.
Ashart exclaims: “Many-Breath!”
Only the chieftain of the Red Cow usually meets the clan
wyter, and then only in the barrow at the base of Grave Hill.

42

Much of the action in this act is up
to the PCs. Upon their return to Red
Cow Fort with the news that the
Wandle is polluted, everyone stops
drinking from it. As people recover
from the fever, no one gets sick again.
But now everyone has to walk miles
to fetch water from the Creek; a huge
burden in planting season.
The children are still missing. Ustarna still suspects the events
are linked.
Broddi tries to talk to Wandle to see if he can find out why
she is upset, but she refuses to talk to him, crying and saying
she is too upset to speak to the chieftain, who has ‘betrayed her.’
The next steps are up to the PCs.
If they go back to Jostharl’s household, where the infection
began, Farnantyr will be missing, suggesting his guilt (actually
he has run because the feud makes it impossible to marry his
lover Mirani).
If they do not think to return, Ustarna tells the PCs that
Voranga Many-Sorrows may be able to help because she has a
good relationship with Wandle. Ustarna tells the PCs to take
Voranga a gift of honey, for she has a sweet tooth.
If the PCs fought with the Dogeaters, Farandar and Kullina
approach them.
“You have joined the rebellion now,” Farandar tells them,
“and have a price on your head. You are our brothers and sisters
in arms. There are others in your clan who would see Sartar free
again. We stand together.”
“Broddi is no friend to the rebellion,” Kullina says, “so he
will regard you as trouble now. Don’t worry, when Sartar is freed,
we will remember who made sacrifices, and the people will then
know of your deeds.”

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 2

Give the PCs a Directed Improvement relationship to the
Free Sartar faction (see HeroQuest Glorantha page 105).

ASHWATER FALL
Voranga Many-Sorrows lives in hermit’s cave near Ashwater
Fall. Mist and spray hangs in the air. Alynxes roam everywhere.
Voranga feeds them, but they are wild and come and go as they
please. The presence of the cats tends to alert her to visitors
such as the PCs. Her cave is hung with herbs, cooking utensils,
preserved food, making it necessary to duck down to enter. Her
furniture is simple, a table, some benches, a stone dresser and
basin, her bed a straw mattress spread across a rock shelf. A fire
burns in a stone fireplace providing warmth and the only light;
small lesser spirits waft the smoke out of the cave for her.
Voranga is unpredictable, sometimes willing to entertain
visitors, sometimes not. She flirts with everyone, but reaching
through to her depends on piquing her interest. Getting
Voranga’s help is a contest with a High resistance.
A gift of honey, or other sweet substance helps, as Voranga
has a sweet tooth. Give a +3 Situational Modifier to the PC.
Seduction is a viable approach as well, for a PC of either sex; give
the PC a +6 Situational Modifier. If a male PC who has mastery
in the Air Rune seduces her, she will ask him to join her in a
rainmaking ceremony in the fields. This is an enormous honor,
bringing good fortune to the whole of the Cinsina. Give the PC
a Directed Improvement relationship to Voranga (see HeroQuest
Glorantha page 105).
If Voranga does not wish to help the PCs she simply babbles
in broken poetry. There are no clues here, she is just not engaging
with them, and continues to live in her own strange world.
If Voranga does decide to help she becomes lucid. She asks
the PCs to recount what has happened.
“Few things upset Wandle. When people or their livestock
pollute her waters or they show a lack of respect to the animals
that swim in her waters, or the plants that grow along the river.
She offers us her bounty for free, and asks so little in return, it is
hard when people treat her without respect,” Voranga tells them.
“We should go to Stagland Sour and see if we can find what
pains her. We will need a gift for her, ask Broddi to provide one.
I will meet you on the edge of the Sour at dusk tonight.”

“I am always pleased to help kinfolk,” she tells them, “especially
when they are serving their own kin. There is no need to think
about repayment now, one day, when you come into your own,
you will be in a position to help me, and I will call on you then.”
Stagland Sour

Voranga meets the PCs at the edge of the Sour at dusk. She
carries a torch to guide the way as the daylight fails. Borngold
Many-Brothers accompanies her.
“The marsh here is sacred to Krikans, the Creek, and its
tributaries,” she tells them, “and thus to Skyriver Titan.” She
points to a causeway running through the marsh. “Keep to the
path; we are here at the sufferance of the spirits of this place.”
Walking off the path here is dangerous. This is a liminal place,
neither water nor earth but both. The Spirit World is close, and
anyone with Spirit Sense can see water, frog, snake, and insect spirits
clustering near the causeway. They will attack those who wander
from the causeway, seeking to possess them, and then direct their
possessed victims to drown themselves in the water and mud.
The spirits are particularly angry because Wandle is upset.
Will-o’-the-wisp, or ghost-lights, hover in the darkness by the
causeway. They are hypnotic, drawing the gaze of travelers without
Spirit Sense who cannot see them for what they are — small spirits
of the marsh. Those who cannot perceive their true nature may be
drawn to follow them, mistaking them for Voranga’s torch and
step from the path to be attacked by the spirits.
The causeway ends in a platform. Borngold tells the PCs to
form a circle and place their gift in the center. He marks out
the circle with river pebbles, then lights candles around the edge
of the circle. Voranga invokes Skyriver Titan, Krikans, and the
tributaries. She offers small gifts to the water and praises Wandle
for her beauty and life giving powers. Then she asks Wandle to
come forth and receive her gift.
The water in front of the platform coalesces into the shape of
a woman. Wandle’s form is protean.
At first, to the male PCs she seems to be a beautiful young
woman, with long watery hair, and a voluptuous figure. To the
women she appears to be a naked youth with an athletic figure.
As she strides onto the platform, all eyes turn upon her and it is
hard to resist desiring her.
She sings a sweet song of the fish in the waters.

Gift Bringers

The PCs need to obtain a gift. Treat this as an attempt to draw
on Community Resources (see HeroQuest Glorantha page 123).
If Broddi is hostile to the PCs, because the clan has had to pay
wergild to the Lunar garrison (see Play of the Game below) then
this modifies the attempt.
If the PCs fail to gain access to Community Resources, their
only options are either to try and persuade a wealthy influential
NPC (treat a Victory as a benefit to the attempt to speak to
Wandle, a Defeat as a penalty to gaining future help from that
NPC), or to provide a gift themselves (allow them to Augment
with a suitable Ability).
Darna Longcoat will offer a gift without a contest, if asked
and the PCs should know her reputation of generosity. Anyone
who takes a gift from Darna Longcoat should take the Flaw of In
Debt to Darna Longcoat.

Darting silver silvery fishes,
Amidst the reeds greenish,
Every friend I could wish,
Blowing bubbly bubbling kisses.
But as she stands in the center, by her gift, she mutates,
into a repulsive hag, her face scaled, her back bent, her hair
becoming long snakes of water that swing toward the PCs,
fanged mouths agape.
She screams a blood-curdling scream.

1618

See my fulsome fury wail and hiss,
For my dark loathing is capricious,
Filled with hateful passion vicious,
Do you dare ask what lies amiss?

43

Remaining within the circle when Wandle transforms, is a
contest against a High resistance.
“Betrayed! I have been betrayed! Spiteful, hateful Red Cow.
What did I do to deserve this?” Wandle wails, “None shall drink
of my waters, or take my bounty then! Let us see who is sorry.”
“Orlanth is here,” Voranga begins and points to the PC with
the highest Air Rune. “He will mend what is broken and right
the wrongs done to you.” She motions to the PC to hand over
the clans’ gift to Wandle.
“I will keep their children, for the Red Cow cannot be fit
parents,” Wandle tells them.
Frame the contest as discovering the reason for Wandle’s
wrath. She is so angry that the PCs can’t hope to mollify her and
get the children back or return her protection to using the waters
of the Heort Creek; they need to coax from her what injured
her, so that they can put it right. Game Masters can reveal that
a lover, even on a Defeat, has injured Wandle but revealing that
Farnantyr is her lover requires a Victory. She won’t name him,
but will make an image of him out of the water, and the PCs will
easily be able to recognize his face from meeting with him earlier.
Make sure to note Consequences of Defeat or Benefit of
Victory as modifiers to future interaction with Wandle.

EASTSIDE
Jostharl’s Household

Eventually the PCs should return to Jostharl’s household where
it all began. All the answers are here.
Although the sickness has passed, because the people now
travel to the Creek for water, this is not a happy household, for
the loss of their children weighs heavily on everyone.
The PCs’ kin are anxious; can they solve the problem and
return the children?
The PCs soon learn from Jostharl the household has also
lost Farnantyr. No one is sure if this is related to the children’s
disappearance.
If the PCs have learned from Wandle that a lover has jilted
her, Jostharl mentions that everyone suspected Farnantyr had
taken a lover but was secretive about it. His sister Renedala
might know more.
(In fact Farnantyr’s secret is his Emerald Sword lover, not
Wandle. But the clues will lead the PCs in the right direction).
Renedala is twelve years old, and still a girl — not having
undergone her initiation, but she has already cut her hair short,
and dyed it red. She spends her time climbing trees, racing the
boys, practicing with her javelin and generally behaving like a
tomboy.
Everyone expects her to reveal the Air Rune at her initiation
and follow Vinga’s path.
No one is worried about this, apart from Renedala, who frets
endlessly about her initiation and that she might have the Earth
Rune and have to take Ernalda’s path.
As a result Renedala is receptive to Vingans (+6 Situational
Modifier) and Orlanthi (+3 Situational Modifier) but hostile to
Ernaldans (-6 Situational Modifier).
Renedala knows that her brother discovered tunnels under the
fort and uses them to visit Mirani. She knows nothing about her

44

brother and Wandle. (He shared romance with his sister, but not
his sexual adventures, which is a matter for adults not children.) She
followed him into the tunnels and knows the route under the Creek.
Because the PCs need Renedala to show them the route
through the tunnels, frame the Consequences of Defeat, as
Renedala running for the tunnels to warn her brother and the
PCs having to drop everything and give chase. Renedala insists
on going along with the PCs, “You won’t find your way through
those tunnels without me!” She sees this as an opportunity to
prove herself — on an adventure!
Through the Tunnels

The tunnels under Red Cow Fort are carved into the sandstone.
Water has shaped some; others sections were excavated by people
using antler picks; there are rooms the purpose of which is long
forgotten cut into the rock. They extend down sharply though
the body of the hill and then run for several miles through the
surrounding area. One branch of the tunnel system heads north
and runs under the Creek.
Travel through the tunnels is at times easy, there are places
where steps have been carved, floors leveled, tunnels widened
and people can simply walk through the passages. Other sections
are not improved and there are unexpected pits and chasms,
narrow squeezes and sumps, and places where the tunnels are
completely flooded or blocked by a rock fall and there is nothing
to do but turn around a find a new route.
There are animals in the tunnels — Rubble Runners — they
dwell in packs and are vicious to intruders. They feed on the
rubbish thrown over the cliffs or down the clefts in the rock of
Red Cow Fort. In one or two cases they have eaten their way into
the storage pits used by the Red Cow.
If Renedala agrees to show the PCs where her brother has
gone too, then the journey through the tunnels is an Arduous
Auto-Success (see HeroQuest Glorantha) as Renedala leads them
by the easiest path under the Creek.
If the PCs chase Renedala then it is a Costly Success against a
Very High resistance to travel through these tunnels (see HeroQuest
Glorantha). The Consequences of Defeat are injuries from falls,
cave-ins, near drowning, scrapes in a squeeze, or meeting a pack
of rubble runners, etc. Renedala emerges with just a few scrapes.

CREEK TURN
The Red Cow is feuding with the Emerald Sword, so events
in Creek Turn will be difficult. Horns blow at their approach,
and Rostakus Twice-Outlawed will strap on armor and call his
household to confront these ‘raiders.’

RUBBLE RUNNER
A rubble runner is a rat-shaped creature one to two-feet
long which lives in packs underground, or in ruins. Its
wide mouth gapes back to its shoulders and can open
to 60 degrees to reveal rows of sharp needle teeth. The
rubble runner’s hide is a tough armadillo-like leathery
armor shell. They have poor eyesight and hunt by scent.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 2

Ask the PCs how they feel to be facing the man who killed
their old clan champion!
Rostakus Twice-Outlawed will be aggressive in confronting
the PCs. He wants to know what they are doing here. If
Renedala is present he mocks the PCs as hiding behind the skirts
of children. Renedala becomes aggressive with Rostakus — “I
am almost a woman and soon will be a Vingan” — Rostakus
laughs cruelly and says, “And soon after that you’ll be lying face
down in the mud, trying to hold your guts back in from the hole
a spear made, because you were too young and dumb to know
that war is killing and death!”
Rostakus will be incensed to learn of Farnantyr and Mirani,
“What do you mean? One of our daughters is a bitch and rutting
with some Red Cow dog! You have a lot to answer for. He has
even more to answer for. Someone bring me that cur and his
bitch.” His insults are even more insulting to the Orlanthi, who
keep cats and dislike dogs.
Calming the situation is a contest with a Very High resistance
— the ongoing feud makes peaceful negotiation difficult. If PCs
lose the contest Rostakus challenges one of them to a duel —
probably whoever seems to be the leader. If they accept he will
set the location as Isle Dangerous a week hence. If they refuse
then the PC suffers Orlanth’s Scorn and has a penalty equal
to the level of Defeat to use Orlanthi divine rune affinities —
Orlanth does not like cowards! It is up to the Game Master to
determine how the PC can heal this damage to their reputation
in the eyes of their god.
Whether dragged out by Rostakus’ carls, emerging of their
own accord, or found by Renedala, Farnantyr and Mirani join
the heated confrontation.
“Well, slut, lying with a Red Cow dog,” Rostakus spits before
Mirani, “this is a matter that will have to go before the chieftain.
He’ll have to know how you cheapened yourself.” There are nods
of approval from the Emerald Sword. One of the woman spits in
Mirani’s face and shouts “whore!”
Farnantyr tries to shield Mirani from the crowd. A rock flies
out and strikes him on the side of the head. Blood runs down his
face, and he is stunned for a moment.
“Stop it,” Farnantyr cries, “leave her alone!”
Rostakus does nothing to intervene.
Do the PCs intervene at this point, to try and protect
Farnantyr and Mirani from the mob? If not a few more stones
fly out, and one strikes Farnantyr a good enough blow to knock
him to the floor. The women continue to spit at Mirani, call her
names, and yank her by the hair. Renedala screams and rushes
Rostakus, who sidesteps, laughs, catches her and puts her over
his knee and spanks her. Then he sends her sobbing back to the
PCs, laughter ringing in her ears.
Most likely the PCs try to drag Farnantyr and Renedala away
from the mob. He sobs for Mirani. She cries his name. Both
swear love for each other. If they were unable to quell the mob
earlier, treat this as a Costly Success, with any level of Defeat
indicating Farnantyr is injured.
Getting Rostakus and his kin to let Mirani go is Nearly
Impossible. Such a matter needs to go before the chieftain, and
the idea of allowing one of their daughters to join a clan they are
feuding with would seem outrageous and ridiculous.

If the Red Cow PCs flee with Farnantyr and Renedala, then
the Emerald Sword jeers as they leave Creek Turn. Fortunately as
no one follows to see them off, they can use the tunnels to retreat
if they must.
The PCs might decide to fight with the mob. Rostakus
Twice-Outlawed should be a Very High resistance and might
prove a challenge for two to three PCs. Adjust the number of
good fighters who accompany him depending on the size of your
group — between two and four is right. The mob will prove less
of a challenge — likely to run if axe and spear come into play.
Wandle

With Farnantyr in the custody of the PCs they may want to
question him about Wandle. He will seem almost relieved they
are not questioning him about Mirani, and happily opens up
about his tryst with the nymph.
“I couldn’t really resist. Well, I mean, you’ve seen her. I didn’t
think it was anything more than sex,” he says. “There was a pool
in a large cave in the tunnels and I would often go there to meet
her. But it couldn’t last could it? I mean, I’m just a farmer’s boy
who hasn’t even got enough oxen for a plough team of his own.
Why would a goddess be interested in me?”
If the PCs explain he is the cause of her wrath, and the loss of
the children he looks devastated. “I never meant for any of this
to happen, any of it. I’ve ruined everything.”
If the PCs suggest that he meets with Wandle to resolve the
matter he readily agrees, “But I won’t betray Mirani,” he tells
them, “I love her. You have to explain that.”

ATONEMENT
Farnantyr will happily take the PCs to the cave in the tunnels
where he used to meet Wandle. It is at the bottom of the waters
of this cave that the missing children now sleep and play — for
Wandle has blessed them with gills to breathe in her waters.
The PCs might even see one or two, darting in or out of the
water.
It is possible the PCs decide to go back to Stagland Sour as
well. The atonement can work just as well there, but the children
won’t be present.
Wandle will appear at either location when Farnantyr appears.
She looks radiantly beautiful. “My love,” she says, “I knew
you would come back.”
Farnantyr looks vaguely terrified and looks imploringly at the
PCs, “Can you explain to her that we can’t be lovers anymore, I
have found someone else.”
Wandle’s face transforms into that of the hag with hair of
snakes. The children all stop playing and dive back into the
water. Farnantyr cowers on the floor, whimpering in fear.
The PCs need to persuade Wandle to forgive Farnantyr and
thus release the children, and allow the Red Cow to enjoy the
bounty of her waters in safety again.
How to do this is left to the ingenuity of the PCs.
Apply a Situational Modifier of +6 for anyone who decides
to seduce Wandle and become her new lover. If a seduction
succeeds Wandle gifts the PC with gills, so he or she can descend
under the water with her. Give the PC a Directed Improvement
for Breathe Water as a Natural Magical Talent.

1618

45

Any Victory should allow the PCs to succeed; these become a
Benefit of Victory to future interaction with Wandle.
On a Defeat, the PCs fail to convince Wandle that Farnantyr
should be forgiven. She releases the children; she has tired of
their games anyway, but does not grant the Red Cow access to
her waters. Apply the Consequences of Defeat to the Red Cow’s
Wealth Community Resource as an important natural resource
dries up. On a Major or Complete Defeat, Wandle is so angry
she fills Farnantyr’s lungs with water and he drowns, clutching at
the PCs as he expires.
In that outcome, restoring the Red Cow’s fortunes in that case
is left to the Game Master — possibilities include getting help
from Orstalor Spearlord, or performing a This World heroquest
to aid or conquer the waters which results in renewed friendship
between the Red Cow and Wandle.
The children are unharmed by their ordeal — although all
now have gills and webbed toes and feet, and have become
amphibious. People call them Wandle’s Children after that.

PLAY OF THE GAME
This episode is designed to introduce players to the Red Cow
clan and environment. It introduces them to a few locations,
NPCs, and establishes the key threat in 1618, the feud with the
Emerald Sword clan. As such, add your own scenes to introduce
any NPCs who might be significant, given the Narrative Hook
the players choose for their PCs. Treat this as a kick-starter to
the players understanding the clan. Take your time, and allow
the PCs plenty of opportunity to learn who is who in their clan.
The sickness affecting the clan is a device to force player
agency — the PCs must act because the movers and shakers are
too ill to do so. In addition, the illness is a threat to drive the
story forward in the early steps. With the Emerald Sword waiting
in the wings, NPCs should express concern if the PCs stall or
dally. “We do not have time for this,” they say, “the Emerald
Sword will soon get wind of the clan’s weakness and overrun us.”
Ustarna drives the PCs to uncover the mystery. She is a Game
Master tool here, to avoid the players wandering off track when
confronted with the mystery. For some groups, her intervention
may feel too much as though it risks robbing the players of the
choices. In that case, dial down her involvement and let the PCs
find their own way through the crisis. It is not necessary to travel
to Grave Hill and sacrifice to the gods to solve the problem.
The Game Master may still want to push beats on the PCs
introducing them to key members of the clan, so that her group
can begin to develop their own episodes from those interactions.
Once the PCs have information that Wandle is unhappy,
either through a sacrifice at Grave Hill, or petitioning Voranga
Many-Sorrows, try to allow the players as much freedom as you
can to solve the problem.
Involving Voranga with the first confrontation with Wandle
allows PCs to meet with this enigmatic NPC. It also allows you to
drive groups lacking direction towards the solution to the problem.
If one of the PCs challenges Rostakus to a duel, it takes place
one week after the challenge was issued at Isle Dangerous.
The duel gathers a crowd. Korolfin Longeye is there; just in
case it turns into a brawl, he has brought militia with him. Ivar

46

Quickstep attends too, happy to see the ‘sport’ of two of his
enemies killing each other. Even Illaro Broken-Back from the
Lunar authorities is there, and whilst he should frown on such
a duel, he seems happy to watch the entertainment, along with
everyone else.
Rostakus Twice-Outlawed is a renowned fighter and should
be a +W resistance. What may disturb the PC, if they have not
fought Rostakus yet, is that Rostakus Twice-Outlawed is clearly
drunk and still fights this well. What kind of opponent would
he be if sober?
Broddi will be angry with anyone involved, either as the duelist
or attending in support of the duelist. If the PC dies, Broddi
refuses his kin the right to ask for wergild — pointing out the
victim’s failure to “obey chosen leaders.” Of course, this may anger
the PCs friends and families, lose Broddi support, and create a
debt that can only be repaid through more blood vengeance.
If the PCs fail to attend Orlanth will scorn them (use the
original Consequences of Defeat from the confrontation that led
to the duel), and skalds will sing of their cowardice. As above,
the injury remains until the PC can heal his relationship through
acts more becoming of an Orlanthi.
If Rostakus should die then replace him future episodes with
Korlmhyor or a new Game Master NPC.
If Broddi discovers Farnantyr has found the tunnels leading
into Emerald Sword lands he becomes worried about the risk
of an attack, and orders the passages under the Creek blocked.
Darna Longcoat and Salissa will object — these passages could
be used to attack our enemies — but Broddi overrules them
saying that the risk is too great.
Broddi will listen but not entertain petitions to unite Mirani
and Farnantyr now — but he commits the information to
memory; marriages are always a good way to cement a peace
treaty and end a feud.
Broddi will be angry with the PCs if the attempts to persuade
Wandle to forgive Farnantyr fail — resulting in the Red Cow
losing access to the Heort Creek. Without reliable fresh water,
life becomes difficult for the farmers along the Heort Creek.
People and cattle die. Voranga tries to help by making rain, and
the farmers catch what they can in rain butts, but the clan will
have to rely on stores and buying food to feed itself until the
situation is resolved.
A group more open to the Empire won’t necessarily want to kill
Lunar soldiers. A Game Master with PCs with that background
may wish to bring in Estavia GoldEyes as an ally in the search,
and perhaps have her perform the necessary divinations at the
Seven Mothers shrine in Red Cow Fort.
The Empire will not take the death of its soldiers at Grave
Hill lightly. They offer a reward to anyone who comes forward
with information leading to the arrest of those involved — three
years without taxes. Bolik Red-Turner and Tarkalus Bigger-Boat
are most active in the search for those who did it.
The Empire also fines the Red Cow. Broddi has to pay ten
cows in wergild for every dead soldier, and 25 cows for the
garrison commander. This is a heavy blow to the Red Cow;
deplete the clan’s Wealth Resource by -6. Broddi calls the PCs
into his hall and expresses his displeasure. “There were other
ways to solve this problem, which did not involve killing Lunar

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 2

troops. I could turn you over for the good of the Red Cow, but
I prefer to think that you will believe yourself in the clan’s debt,
and work to find some way to restore our fortunes.”
Many outcomes from this episode lead to Broddi marking
the PCs as ‘Trouble People’ — whose actions are a threat to
their own clan. Be sure to note that in future interactions with
Broddi, who will tend to be hostile to them, perhaps by raising
the resistance the pass-fail cycle suggests. If the situation results
in the Red Cow falling into poverty, people may shun the PCs as
the source of their troubles.

JARSTAK’S RAID

Jarstak people no longer call the Cinsina the ‘Brave Tribe’ but the
‘Cowards Tribe’ because they refuse to exact a blood price for the
wrongs done to them. Jarstak vows to raid without the chieftain’s
permission. Many of the young men are interested; it’s a chance
to make a name and start building a herd.

TWIST
Broddi has refused him permission to raid because he knows
Jarstak is dangerous. With little control of his temper, he is likely
to kill or injure on the raid if no one prevents him.

CONNECTED EPISODES
Feud, Cattle Raid, Patrol, Peace Weaving

BEGINS WITH
Jarstak Bristle-Beard is recruiting for a cattle raid into the clan
lands of the Emerald Sword clan of the Dinacoli. The problem
is everyone knows Broddi has turned him down, for fear of
worsening the feud with the Emerald Sword.
“Only a fool goes poking a stick into a hornet’s nest,” he tells
Jarstak, “stay away from the Emerald Sword clan.”

CAST
Jarstak Bristle-Beard, Rostakus Twice-Outlawed, Broddi Strong-Kin

SITUATION
Spurred on by Darna Longcoat, Salissa Three-Husbands and
Kangharl Black-Brow have goaded Jarstak into a fury. They tell

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS
JARSTAK’S RAGE
Use the information from the common activity Cattle Raid to run
this episode. Jarstak has already failed to get permission to raid
from Broddi and everyone knows it, so there is no need to run
Get Permission to Raid. We provide beats here for the attempt
to recruit the PCs for the raid, and if that succeeds, the climax
of the raid itself.
Jarstak plans to raid Creek Turn, the closest village to the Red
Cow. See The Missing, above.
Salissa Three-Husbands and Kangharl Black-Brow approach
the PCs.
“Jarstak Bristle-Beard plans to raid the Emerald Sword,”
Kangharl tells the PCs, “and he is looking for companions. I
urge you to join him, despite the chieftain’s refusal. The Emerald

Stealing cows at Creek Turn

1618

47

Sword look down their noses at us, they mock us as weak. They
burned my home, and I heard my wife inside — her screams
still wake me from my dreams every night. They spur my dull
revenge. I will never accept Broddi’s settlement of blood price
with Duruvan. This summer, I swear by Orlanth, Korlmhyor
the Swift will pay for what he did to me. For now, this cattle raid
will bloody their noses, and perhaps my ancestors will be quiet
enough that I can rest.”
“When I grew up in the Underwillow,” Salissa begins, “the
Ernaldan priestesses and god-talkers could always be sure the
Orlanth would protect them and right wrongs done against
them. I fear this is not the case in the Red Cow these days. There
are too few who will protect a clan when honor is at stake.”
If the PCs killed Lunar soldiers in The Missing, resulting in
the Red Cow being fined, then Salissa may say, “I know that you
are in the Red Cow’s debt for those fines we paid to the Empire
for the soldiers killed at Grave Hill. Winning cows from our
enemies might go some way to paying off your debts.”
Let the PCs decide if they want to join the raid. Salissa
will mock those who do not agree to join the raid as cowards.
Kangharl just seems disappointed. If the PCs do agree Kangharl
clasps them by the hand, and says, “You will always find a place
by the fire in my hall.”
The goal should be to take cows before the folk of Creek Turn
village react. Night watchmen and alynxes will prove a hazard.
The prize animals are in the homefield — closest to the village
— and thus most difficult to steal without being spotted. Jarstak
tells everyone he is keen to steal those animals, particularly
the prize bull of the village, in order to humiliate the Emerald
Sword. Jarstak is keen to provoke a fight. As the raiders spill into
the stead, he blows his hunting horn and cries “Up sons of the
Emerald Sword, the Red Cow are upon you!”
Men folk spill forth from the longhouses, half-dressed,
clutching at spears. Rostakus Twice-Outlawed and his sons try
to scare the PCs off, by putting their helmets on and forming a
shield wall. Jarstak runs around grinning and shouting: “Who
will fight me!” He is in a killing mood and will try to lead a
wedge into the shield wall.
The PCs’ actions determine the outcome here — does this
turn into a bloody battle, or do cooler heads prevail?
Rostakus Twice-Outlawed is a renowned warrior and a Very
High resistance in a fight. He won’t face down the PCs, but if the
PCs insist on facing him, he will probably better three or four of
them in a fight.
Broddi’s Anger

Broddi is angry and vents that anger on the cattle raiders on their
return. He keeps any cows from the raid and refuses to hand
them to the raiders stating “they will be needed to pay wergild to
the victims of this bloody feud.” Jarstak is infuriated at what he
sees as a failure of the chieftain’s duty to his followers.
If the PCs cost the clan wergild in The Missing, Broddi explodes
at them. “You are Trouble People. Every clan is cursed with them.
I thought those lazy no-goods at Sevenoaks were the biggest thorn
in the side of this clan. But you could challenge them for that
position. You better start proving you understand your duty to the
clan, or next time I may not protect you from outlawry.”

48

Kangharl Black-Brow invites the raiders to Tormakt’s Farm
where he holds a feast in their honor. Salissa Three-Husbands
joins, and she praises those who “have upheld our clan’s virtues.”
Kangharl approaches the PCs one-by-one to ask if he can
“count on their support in the future.” If people agree, Kangharl
gifts them with a silver arm ring saying, “I know how to treat
my people.”

PLAY OF THE GAME
Some PCs may have attitudes or alliances with Broddi meaning
they object to the raid and want to prevent it rather than support
it. Beats for a group that decides to work against Jarstak may
change to include attempts to dissuade kinfolk from joining
Jarstak’s band, and attempts to influence those who can control
Jarstak like Ortossi.
Direct, violent confrontation carries the risk of kinstrife —
when one member of the clan kills another — and Jarstak is
violent enough for this to be the light to his disorder keg. The
ring will intervene to stop that from happening, but if kinstrife
does occur, the clan will outlaw those responsible.
In a group with mixed attitudes, you might have Broddi ask
them to join the raid to ensure it does not get ‘out-of-hand.’ If
the hero has a relationship with another figure in the Eye of the
Hurricane faction, the request most likely comes through them,
on Broddi’s behalf. If they succeeded in preventing trouble,
Broddi will gift those PCs with fine cattle from his own herds.
It is unlikely Rostakus dies here, but if he does you will
need to introduce a new recurring Emerald Sword thane for
subsequent episodes or use Korlmhyor. A son of Rostakus, hellbent on vengeance might be appropriate.
Although the next episode we provide, The Burning of
Lhankpentos the Blind, can be run immediately afterwards, Game
Masters might like to insert their own episodes ratcheting up the
tension beforehand. See Feud for details above.

THE BURNING OF
LHANKPENTOS
THE BLIND
BEGINS WITH
You smell smoke! The hissing and spitting of the alynxes wakes
everyone in the longhouse. It is the gray half-light just before
dawn. There is the dull clunk of metal on metal from outside
and the sound of boots running. Suddenly there is the sound of
shouted orders and a horn blows outside followed by a scream.

CAST
Rostakus Twice-Outlawed, Korlmhyor the Swift, Broddi StrongKin, Kangharl Black-Brow, Lhankpentos the Blind, Jaranil the
Thunder, Ortossi Ketilsson

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 2

SITUATION
Rostakus Twice-Outlawed and Korlmhyor the Swift lead a raid
on Tormakt’s Farm.
One or more of the PCs might have a connection allowing
them to be present during the raid; another option is to have
Lhankpentos the Blind to invite them to his hall for a feast. If
the PCs saved the children in The Missing, Lhankpentos invites
them to thank them for their role in saving his grandchildren.

CONNECTED EPISODES
Feud, Cattle Raid, Patrol, Peace Weaving, Emissaries

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS
THE SILK-BREECHES FEUD
Burners

The raiders are intent on stead burning. Rostakus and Korlmhyor’s
plan is to pen everyone inside the village’s main longhouse, and
set fire to it, killing everyone inside, including the women and
children. When the players awake, the longhouse they sleep in
is already surrounded and the thatch is smoldering. The doors
seem blocked from the outside.
Unless the PCs can produce a plan to survive the fire, the
choice is stark: break a door down and fight your way out, or burn
to death. Through cracks in the wooden frame, they can see the
raiders gathered outside and other halls are being set ablaze as well.
The burners expect some people to try to fight their way out
of a burning hall. The raiders will get plenty of warning because
the folk inside must first batter down the barricades in front of
the doors. The burners are ready for people trying to break away
and hurl javelins at those emerging from the burning home. Any
who survive a round of javelins they close with to finish off with
spears and swords.
As smoke begins to fill the house, Lhankpentos succumbs. The
old man’s body simply can’t cope and he dies gasping for air. It is
Nearly Impossible for a PC to stop this, Lhankpentos is old, and
his time in this world is running short. This just gives him the
final push. If a PC does save him, he will still be incapacitated, and
getting him out will be a complicating factor to leaving.
The PCs might wait until the house begins to collapse from
the flames and try to push out of a broken wall instead. The PCs
must succeed at a suitable contest to avoid injury from flames or
inhaling too much smoke.
The most credible plans to survive involve extinguishing the
fire by throwing water, ale, or milk over the flames, or using
magic. Of course those outside will try to keep relighting the fire,
tossing new torches into the thatch or lighting hay bales stacked
against the walls of the building.
Anyone who does not leave a burning building will die either
from smoke inhalation or being consumed by fire.
The PCs and the burners can talk to each other, so it might be
possible to persuade the burners to stop, or to let the women and
children go. Burning is considered a dishonorable act, because it
is so indiscriminate.

Persuading the burners to let the women and children escape
has a High resistance. Persuading them to let the men go has a
Very High resistance. Inventive PCs may try to smuggle people
out disguised as women, etc.
Persuading them to let Kangharl go has a Nearly Impossible
resistance.
If Kangharl cannot leave, some of his retainers opt to stand
and die with him instead of leaving his side. Kangharl summons
an Umbroli and has it fly a bench through the roof of the building.
It comes crashing down outside, throwing up sparks and embers.
Rostakus’ men scatter and then fall back as the Umbroli barrels
into them. Meanwhile Kangharl leads his followers out through
the hole in the roof. Many are burnt as they climb through the
flames, but manage to escape. They flee under cover of darkness
and confusion from the Umbroli attack.
Any PC who opts to stand with Kangharl creates a debt of
honor Kangharl will repay if asked — provided they survive.
After the event, the burners will be notorious. Lhankpentos
the Blind dies in the attack, burnt to death in his hall. The clan
goes into shock at the death of such a beloved old man. At the
funeral Kangharl Black-Brow gives a moving speech, praising
the old man, promising help to rebuild Tormakt’s Farm, and
promising blood vengeance for this crime.
Most likely, the bloodline elects Kangharl to speak for them
without opposition, unless one of the PCs stands. Opposing
Kangharl at this point is Nearly Impossible unless the PC has
proven his or her self to the bloodline with past deeds, in which
case it might be Very High.
Blood Vengeance

The clan’s cows all run dry and the god-talkers have dreams
of the ancestors dying at the hands of the Dinacoli during the
Resettlement. Ashart Dusk-Eater tells the ring that the ancestors
are angry and have withdrawn their protection. The clan must
raid their enemies if the clan is not to go hungry; the clan must
avenge these wrongs by the ‘Fat Tribe.’
Even Broddi cannot speak peace when faced with this crime.
He organizes a raiding party to hunt down the burners on
Emerald Sword lands and take blood vengeance for Lhankpentos
and the other victims of the raid.
Broddi recruits Jaranil the Thunder and Ortossi Ketilsson
to lead the raid. Kangharl invites the PCs to join any such
expedition. If they refuse Kangharl will goad them, asking if the
“lives of your loved ones mean so little.”
The PCs will find it harder to obtain clan support for their
actions if they fail to join with this raid.

THE SIEGE OF CREEK TURN
Jaranil’s Raid

Jaranil the Thunder gathers his raiding party from amongst the
Red Cow’s thanes and best fighters. The raiders number some
twenty-five of the clan’s thanes and a further forty of the clan’s
better-equipped and trained carls.
After sacrificing a ram to Humakt for aid in killing, Jaranil
takes the raiders across Dangerford. He has little luck though:
spies in Dangerford mean that the Emerald Sword clan has been

1618

49

expecting an attack and posted watchers on the routes from Red
Cow Fort and Dangerford. The watchers blow their horns and
the alert goes quickly from stead to stead.
Rostakus Twice-Outlawed is at Creek Turn. He realizes he is
outnumbered and decides to hide in his longhouses instead of
coming out to meet the Red Cow, hoping that help will arrive
from his clan.
The Red Cow could decide to burn Rostakus. Whilst Ortossi
and Jarstak support the ‘poetic justice’ of this argument, Jaranil
responds, “Two wrongs don’t make a right.” Jaranil will go with
the opinion of the group, but if it goes against him says, “I fear
the Red Cow will live to regret this day.” If the Red Cow tries
burning him then Rostakus attempts to fight his way to freedom
instead of dying in the flames.
Goading Rostakus to a duel is another option but provoking
Rostakus into the open has a High resistance. Rostakus should
be a Very High resistance in a fight.
The Emerald Sword clan has been roused by the watchers’
horns to action. At a nearby stead, Korlmhyor the Swift organizes
a hue and cry summoning thanes and carls to join him in driving
the Red Cow out of Emerald Sword clan lands.
Korlmhyor takes time to assemble enough men to give the Red
Cow a ‘bloody nose.’ By the time he rides out to challenge the
Red Cow he has some thirty thanes and sixty carls in his warband.
Use the advice on War in the Common Activity section to
run this battle. Because Jaranil is in command, and we don’t
want to roll NPC vs. NPC the outcome is pre-determined: the
Red Cow lose this fight and suffers causalities in the rout that
follows the breaking of their shield wall.
Let the PCs know that the Red Cow will lose the fight, and
describe the awful situation as the Emerald Sword break their
line. Encourage the players to frame the contest by Naming the
Prize with this in mind (see HeroQuest Glorantha page 58). They
can still frame contests describing how heroically they fought,
but they might want to focus on how their rear guard action
helps others escape, how Jaranil notices their heroism in the
press of battle, how they help organize the escape back across
the Creek, rallying the troops to prevent them being slaughtered
by vengeful Emerald Sword thanes. The raiders will flee directly
back to Dangerford and one fitting end if they cannot outrun
their pursuers is a battle at Isle Dangerous. The Empire does not
move to break up that battle, it has too few troops to get between
the warring parties. However the Empire begins to consider the
blood feud a problem as a result.
Lower the Red Cow War Resource by -6 to represent this
defeat by the Emerald Sword (see HeroQuest Glorantha page 124).

PLAY OF THE GAME
This episode begins with a simple jolt to the PCs. Keep the pace
moving and don’t allow the players too long to think. Make them
react as their PCs have to, with little notice, barely awake and
confused. Rostakus intends this to be a death trap. It is possible a
PC might choose to sacrifice his or her self so that the others can
escape, for example charging out the front door, whilst the others
make an exit via the rear. Allow the PC to sacrifice themselves
by using the rules for Pyrrhic Victory (see HeroQuest Glorantha).

50

If the PCs manage to save Lhankpentos they will be heroes,
feted by the Tormakting bloodline who consider themselves in
the PCs debt. The old man will die anyway over Sacred Time,
the injuries he received and losing his home are simply too
much, and he slips away quietly, surrounded by his children and
grandchildren. Perhaps even by the PCs.
Even after the burning, don’t allow the players too long to
react. Make it clear that the clan is swept up in an angry mood,
calling for vengeance and showing little desire for negotiation
and compromise. If the PCs suggest compromise or peace,
confront them with angry kin who question their courage and
competence. The voices for peace are few and mostly confined
to members of the Eye of the Hurricane faction like Broddi who
feel that, “There has already been enough killing.”
Some may object that the outcome of the battle is predetermined, and that player action cannot change it, suggesting
they are being railroaded. Remind them that Jaranil not they
was leading the warband, and that you do not intend to role
NPC vs. NPC. By informing them of the outcome of the battle
before they frame the contest, you don’t make their actions
meaningless, as you inform them the contest they frame ought
to be about something other than who wins the battle.
Sometimes players dislike “losing” as the Red Cow do in this
instance. Encourage them to channel those feelings through their
PCs by introducing them to NPCs like Kangharl and Jarstak who
will be bitter about any loss to the “enemy” and plot vengeance.
Following this episode, or even before it, you should run more
scenes from the Feud episode to reflect the explosion of tit-for-tat
killings between the Emerald Sword and the Red Cow clan. The
killings and counter-killings run through Sea Season and into
Fire Season. These incidents can be mixed in with other episodes:
for example, a trade expedition can be interrupted by enemies
from the Emerald Sword clan on a Jonstown or Boldhome street
or whilst traveling along a royal road.
You could also run an Emissaries episode, if the Red Cow tries
to get help from friends or allies. At some point start the Peace
Weaving episode as Broddi tries to end the feud.
The PCs might try to bolster the clan’s War Resource
following a defeat. See Resources, Background Events, and Crisis
Tests above for suggestions.
The Red Cow losses here put them on the back foot. The
arrogance of the Coming Storm faction is seen as having caused
the trouble and Broddi and the Eye of the Hurricane faction gain
from their rivals’ discomfort, with many in the clan realizing
their warnings were correct. Broddi, shocked at the deaths takes
little comfort from the outcome.

PEACE WEAVING
BEGINS WITH
Darna Longcoat wants the PCs to join the expedition to the
Emerald Sword. It is likely that they have earned the reputation
as Trouble People with Broddi, following earlier events. Darna
hopes they are, and will bring the peace process crashing down.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 2

She wants the Red Cow to assert its dominance over the clans
along the Creek, and it won’t do that by suing for peace.
Darna summons the PCs to the Great Hall for the council
meeting — she wants the PCs on hand when Broddi and the
ring discuss who will form part of the expedition to the Emerald
Sword.
“I am going to give you the opportunity to lose your reputation
for bringing trouble to the Red Cow,” she says, smiling, “Broddi
is sending emissaries to the Emerald Sword, to sue for peace and
end this feud. I will petition for you to join us, so you can fix
your broken reputations. After all, that’s what Orlanth did, took
responsibility for his actions and fixed his mistakes.”

CAST
Broddi Strong-Kin, Salissa Three-Husbands, Darna Longcoat,
Kernalda Other-Ways, Griselda Gray-Tresses, Kangharl BlackBrow, Duruvan the Fat, Kallesra Sees-Tomorrow, Rostakus
Twice-Outlawed, Korlmhyor the Swift

SITUATION
Broddi decides the Red Cow is losing the struggle with the
Emerald Sword clan and resolves to seek peace to try to end
the feud. With the Dinacoli allied to Harvar in Alda-Chur, not
Prince Temertain in Boldhome, Broddi is unable to approach a
court to seek resolution, so he “takes it to the women.”
Broddi chooses Griselda Gray-Tresses to lead the women of the
Red Cow clan. The two groups will need to begin weaving their
peace rug, talking through the challenges facing the two clans.
Griselda sets out for the Emerald Sword clan to begin the
talks. She takes Salissa Three-Husbands, Kullina the Fat, and
Darna Longcoat with her. Broddi sends Kernalda Other-Ways to
provide protection for the emissaries.
Broddi chooses Griselda to lead because he has realized that
Darna Longcoat has no interest in peace with the Emerald
Sword clan. Darna plots to see it fail, embarrassing Broddi and
Griselda. Salissa is a puppet dancing to Darna’s tune. Griselda
hopes to win Salissa away from Darna.
Both Griselda and Broddi are aware of Farnantyr and Mirani,
the young lovers from The Missing. Uniting the two of them in
marriage might prove useful to cement any peace negotiations.

CONNECTED EPISODES
Peace Weaving, Feud, The Burning of Lhankpentos the Blind,
Jarstak’s Raid, Jomes’ Peace

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS
THE COUNCIL
Broddi tells the council that he will send the women to make
peace with the Emerald Sword Clan. “There is always another
way,” he tells the assembled ring and PCs.
Salissa Three-Husbands and Kangharl Black-Brow react with
anger, shouting at Broddi and urging him not to “betray the
ancestors by paying off the Emerald Sword.”

Broddi shrugs and simply says, “We cannot win this fight.
“I have asked Griselda Gray-Tresses to weave a peace rug
with the Emerald Sword women,” he continues. “Ernalda’s godtalkers and priestesses will accompany them.”
Everyone expects Darna to be spitting with rage at such
an insult, for as the high priestess of Ernalda she should lead
the peace weaving. But she seems calm, as if she expected this
development.
When Broddi assigns Kernalda to provide protection for
the peace weavers, Darna steps forward, “I know these sons
and daughters of Karganar Blood-Eye,” she points to the PCs,
“would dearly like to win approval from you Broddi, and make
up for any past mistakes. They have petitioned me to join this
mission, as guardians and helpers of the Earth, and I would like
the ring to agree to send them along to help.”
Broddi snorts, “They are Trouble People, more likely to cause
pain than stop it.”
Give the PCs a chance to defend themselves and speak up
for their own actions. After the PCs, Darna and Salissa, but
perhaps surprisingly to the PCs, Farandar and Kullina speak
up in their favor.
Broddi relents.
“Don’t worry,” Darna tells the PCs, “I’ll give you an
opportunity to repay your debt to me in the future.”
Of course Darna is duplicitous, but even if the PCs don’t
trust her, they might want join the expedition.
Some players may be spitting at this point, but such
manipulations are Darna’s style.
Make the PCs aware that by accepting a role in this mission
they enter Darna’s debt. By refusing it they risk offending her.
Give the PCs a Directed Improvement of In Debt to Darna
Longcoat under their Red Cow Clan keyword if they accept. If
they refuse give them a Directed Improvement of Spurned Darna
Longcoat.
Once she has Broddi’s agreement, Darna begins plotting. She
intends for the Trouble People — the PCs — to scupper any
chances the mission has of success.
Her first step is to send Salissa to goad the PCs.
Salissa will question the PCs’ courage, one of the Red Cow
clan’s virtues, for not bringing the stead-burner, Rostakus, the
killer of Lhankpentos the Blind to justice. “Would that I were
a younger woman, I would take Vinga’s vows, dye my hair red,
and kill this man myself, for it appears that we have no men left
in our clan?”
If the PCs want to resist Salissa’s goading it is a contest against
their own Red Cow Clan keyword.
If Salissa wins over any of the PCs, she tells Darna.
If Salissa persuades anyone to sabotage the mission, Darna
abandons using Salissa as a mouthpiece and pushes the PC to
action herself. She reveals her true intent — stop this craven call
for peace — to the PC and actively solicits their aid in upsetting
Broddi’s plans.
Observant PCs may see Darna and Salissa in argument, as
Darna twists Salissa’s arm to act as her mouthpiece. Those PCs
who refuse Salissa’s attempts to subvert the process may attempt
to win Salissa away from Darna. This is a Very High resistance as
Salissa is in fear of Darna and her retribution if crossed.

1618

51

If any PCs fail to listen to Salissa, Darna will ask Kangharl to
approach them.
Kangharl will speak of his pain, the pain of losing his wife
Yerestia three years ago. “My heart cries out. No guilders can
soothe my pain, only blood vengeance against the Emerald
Sword. For too long have the Dinacoli killed our kin. We cannot
offer them peace!”
Again this is a contest against the PC to see if they react to
his goading. If the PC has another Ability likely to encourage
them to be vengeful — a Disorder Rune for example — test that
instead of the Red Cow Clan keyword. Allow the PC to use any
Benefit of Victory from the contest with Salissa in this contest.
If any of the PCs side with him he will take them into his
confidence: “As part of this embassy to the Emerald Sword clan,
you have the opportunity to ensure that peace does not happen.
I will be in your debt for such a gift.”
If the PCs have played The Missing then Farnantyr pleads
with them upon learning they are heading to Creek Turn: “Find
out how Mirani is, tell her that I still love her.”

INTO EMERALD SWORD LANDS
The expedition sets out crossing the Creek at Dangerford and
then following it north towards Lake Aroka. Kernalda rides out
in front of the party, blowing her horn regularly to alert the
Emerald Sword to the expedition’s presence.
Patrol

The Red Cow party meets an Emerald Sword patrol (see Sartar
Companion, page 134) led by Rostakus Twice-Outlawed.
Rostakus is hostile to the presence of Red Cow clan folk on
his lands. If the PCs were involved in The Missing or The Burning
of Lhankpentos the Blind, they will recognize Rostakus. How do
the PCs react?
Rostakus is aggressive. He will happily duel with a PC and
does not back down from a challenge.
If they try to challenge Rostakus to a duel Griselda intervenes
and tells the PC that, “We have come to weave peace, not more
violence. There is always another way.”
In confidence, Salissa will goad any PC who looks likely to
duel with Rostakus: “That men who have done the Red Cow
such harm should freely walk the land and she should not feel
shame! Will you dishonor your ancestors by refusing to show this
son of Dinacol Hard-Rule that the Cinsina will not be cowed
into submission? If you don’t I fear we will always be victims of
their aggression.”
If a PC has expressed willingness to Darna to sabotage the
peace weaving, she tells the PC that, “This Rostakus is touchy
with his honor, fight him and we can be sure this peace weaving
will not end in our submission to the Emerald Sword.”
If the PC obeys Griselda, he will mock the PC as “hiding
behind the women’s skirts.”
If the PC listens to Salissa and agrees a duel he sets the time
and place as “dawn in three days on Isle Dangerous.” Should
the PC fail to attend that duel, Salissa Three-Husbands and
the Emerald Sword will mock them for cowardice. Give them
a Directed Improvement of Cowardly under their Red Cow
Clan keyword.

52

If the PCs ask about Mirani, Rostakus laughs. “That bitch
won’t go chasing after Red Cow dogs since the chieftain told
her that she was dishonoring the memories of the ancestors by
carrying on with one of our enemies. The women shaved her
bald, and she doesn’t leave the house anymore out of shame. I
doubt she will again until it grows back.”
The River Dragon

The party hears shouts and screams the other side of a copse by
the side of the river. Rostakus orders the group to press on — he
wants to see what is happening. Kernalda flanks Griselda, Salissa,
and Darna closely watching nervously for trouble. She orders the
PCs to ride ahead and find out what is happening.
As they break through the tree line, the PCs see four men
and women fighting a large river dragon. The creature has its
jaws around one of the four and is thrashing him about. The
others stick the river dragon with spears, trying to get it to
release its hold on their companion, before it can retreat into
the water.
The river dragon is a huge beast, twenty feet long and
weighing some 2000 lbs. Rostakus and his patrol join the fight
against the river monster. Such a large group is able to force the
River Dragon to release its victim and slink back into the water.
The prize in such a contest for the PCs is to survive without
injury and perhaps acquit themselves well.
After the fight, Rostakus quickly realizes that the victim and
his friends are some of Orstalor’s guerillas. With that discovery,
Rostakus will bind them and take them to his chieftain, to
decide what is to be done. The victim of the River Dragon’s
jaws is badly wounded and needs a healer. The Red Cow
priestesses offer to do what they can, but Rostakus warns them
off. He orders the three less badly injured guerrillas to carry
their friend to Blue Dragon village, from where they can be
turned over to the authorities.
Rostakus is playing a dangerous game, his little patrol is
outnumbered and if the PCs joined with the guerrillas, they
might be able to kill him. Rostakus is relying on Griselda’s desire
for peace to be enough to keep her retinue in line. Kullina the Fat
and Kernalda Other-Ways are strong supporters of the rebellion
and would join any PCs who decided to “free the prisoners.”
If the PCs accept Griselda’s instruction, Salissa and Kullina
complain to the PCs muttering about: “Broddi’s policy of
appeasement.”

BLUE DRAGON
When the PCs arrive at Blue Dragon, it is obvious how much
their delegation is despised. People stop what they are doing to
stare as the Red Cow party proceeds down the track through the
village to the chieftain’s hall. Mothers call their children, alynxes
hiss, men spit on the ground and make the sign to ward off evil.
A young man shouts at the Red Cow: “I am Jarlar son of Garath.
Do you hear me Red Cow? You killed my father! No wergild can
pay that debt. I will have blood vengeance.”
Away from the braying of the mob outside, Duruvan’s
hall seems quiet and safe. Duruvan is polite and welcoming,
restraining much of the bile his clan directs at the Red Cow. He
looks for peace, if the women can find a solution. He introduces

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 2

them to the priestesses on the Emerald Sword ring: Kallesra
Sees-Tomorrow, Tamara Little-Mouse, and Olinara Ravenhead,
wishing them well on finding a solution.
The women retire to the Loom House. Duruvan invites the
men in the Red Cow party to stay in his hall.

BLUE DRAGON STEAD
Located where tributaries flow from Lake Aroka into The
Creek, Blue Dragon village is one of Emerald Sword
clan’s most southerly villages. The location is idyllic and
peaceful. In Earth Season, the land here is covered in a
sea of barley.
The chieftain’s hall of the Emerald Sword clan reflects
the Dinacoli wealth. It is 80 feet in length with a tin roof,
which resounds when the rain falls.

In the Chieftain’s Hall

The escort enjoys comfortable but wary hospitality in the
chieftain’s hall. Korlmhyor the Swift, Rostakus Twice-Outlawed,
and their men always keep them company.
Boredom is the enemy, and to prevent quarreling Duruvan
suggests that the two sides contest in games of skill instead of
war. He proposes sword and shields tournaments, foot races,
swimming in Lake Aroka, and horse racing. He tries to keep
people busy and give their aggression an outlet to prevent
violence.
The contests could spiral into further violence with Rostakus,
especially if he loses to the Red Cow. Salissa and Darna continue
to spread poison, suggesting that, “Losing these games to the
Emerald Sword will show us as weak,” and remarking that,
“Rostakus mocks you; he thinks you feeble.”
In the Loom House

The women come together in the Loom House to weave peace,
intertwining their anger for the crimes committed by each side,
exposing their hopes and dreams for the future.
Treat this as a Group Simple Contest trying to overcome
the resistance to negotiating a settlement felt by both sides. For
any one person to achieve this would be Nearly Impossible,
but working together the women can reduce this resistance to
Very High. Do not roll for NPCs, make some short speeches for
them that reveal their beliefs, interspersing them with the PCs.

Salissa should dwell far more on hurt and injury than solutions,
Kullina will argue over religion, and Darna will refuse to speak
up. Griselds speaks of the cost of war in blood and treasure.
Kallesra works far harder to achieve peace than the Red Cow
priestesses do. Apply the results of the contest to the Red Cow’s
Peace Resource rating (see HeroQuest Glorantha page 125).
See the In the Loom House scene in Peace Weaving for more
advice on running this scene.
If the women agree peace, then they return with their escort
to Red Cow Fort. There they explain the settlement to Broddi
and the ring. Broddi agrees to whatever the women have talked
through.
The clans agree to hold the Peace Rug at Isle Dangerous. Broddi
and the Red Cow ring travel to the meeting, and Broddi asks those
PCs who took part in the peace weaving to accompany him.
At Isle Dangerous, people from both the Cinsina and
Dinacoli tribes turn out to watch the peace weaving. Duruvan
and Broddi embrace like old friends and Griselda and Kallesra
lead the ceremony. Guided by the priestesses, the two clans agree

1618

53

the peace deal. Afterwards everyone celebrates that, “Another
way” has been found, and many people go into Dangerford to
cement new relations by drinking and eating together.

bring peace. Others look scornfully at you, turning their backs,
feeling you have betrayed the ancestors by seeking settlement
with the Emerald Sword clan for this bloody feud.

PLAY OF THE GAME

CAST

Some players may want to stop the feud with the Emerald Sword
clan; others might want to pursue it. This episode gives those
who would prefer to weave peace the chance to act. It also shows
that the main opposition to peace comes from within the clan,
not from outside it.
If the PCs help win peace, Broddi will begin to change his
opinion of them — perhaps there is hope for them after all.
If the PCs try to sabotage the peace plan Broddi confirms his
opinion of them — they are trouble and a danger to the clan.
Should the peace weaving fail the feud will continue. The
Game Master should run more scenes from the Feud episode
to indicate the worsening of the conflict between the two clans.
The PCs might try to bolster the clan’s Peace Resource
following a defeat. If the Red Cow has yet to seek allies from
other clans, or even from the tribe, then run an Emissaries
episode as the clan seeks help prosecuting the war. The Emerald
Sword may also try to obtain allies. The PCs might have to stop
the Emerald Sword emissaries winning over the Dolutha.
The tension in this scenario comes from within the Red Cow
mission. Griselda tries to soothe passions and tempers, but Salissa
and Darna try to inflame them. The PCs are pawns to Darna;
she hopes she can push the Trouble People into scuppering any
negotiation: they will take the blame and Griselda’s expedition
will be a failure.
The PCs might try to expose Darna, but she is careful to
make Salissa the scapegoat if anything goes wrong. Broddi won’t
accept Darna has betrayed him, choosing to believe in Salissa’s
guilt instead, and pressing the allegation only serves to weaken
their position with Broddi.
If the PC does end up in a duel with Rostakus, see the Play
of The Game notes in The Missing for advice on how to run this.
If peace was agreed, then the duel may ironically follow the
peace conference at Isle Dangerous. Despite the best efforts of
both clans the seeds of a new feud have been sown, which may
reap a bitter harvest when the peace woven earlier begins to fray
and wear thin.
Eventually it is likely that the Red Cow need to seek
outside help to reach a settlement. In that case, run Fazzur
Wants Peace, Now!

Broddi Strong-Kin, Jomes Hostralos, Duruvan the Fat, Ivartha
the Skinner

FAZZUR WANTS PEACE,
NOW!
BEGINS WITH
You gather at the side of your chieftain, Broddi Strong-Kin. The
emotions of the people of Red Cow Fort seem mixed. Some wish
you well as you depart, hoping that your expedition will at last

54

SITUATION
Fazzur is focused on the invasion of the Holy Country to the
south of Dragon Pass. He will launch a major invasion of
Heortland in late Sea Season 1619. Thousands of soldiers from
across the Empire have been gathering at the great Lunar Camp
outside of Wilmskirk for the better part of a year; more are
expected to arrive during Sea Season. Fazzur intends to use the
Creek-Stream River to help supply this great army. The last
thing General Fazzur wants is a tribal war interfering with his
supply chain!
The fighting across the Creek threatens his supply routes so
Fazzur sends his ‘detachable right hand,’ Gordius Silverus (see
Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes page 269, Sartar Companion, page
121), to resolve it. Gordius assembles the Arrowstone Cavalry
from Jonstown and rides into Dangerford. He summons Queen
Ivartha and King Petrad to attend a peace conference on Isle
Dangerous, along with Broddi Strong-Kin and Duruvan the Fat.
He also summons Jomes to join him, to lend his advice.
Many in the Red Cow clan are optimistic at this turn of
events, especially those who fight alongside Jomes in the Wolf
Hunt. “He is a good man,” they will tell anyone who will
listen. “We can trust him to speak up for us to Gordius on how
wronged we have been by the Emerald Sword. After all, they
started it.”
Broddi asks the PCs to accompany him.

CONNECTED EPISODES
Feud, Cattle Raid, Patrol, Peace Weaving

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS
DANGERFORD
The Queen

The queen and her household arrive in Red Cow Fort a few
days before setting out with Broddi, and this provides a good
opportunity for the PCs to meet them. Introduce the PCs
to members of the queen’s household who share their beliefs
on the Telmori and Lunar threats. Introduce them to Queen
Ivartha herself.
Queen Ivartha is sympathetic to the Red Cow; those who
died were her kin too after all. However, she is concerned that the
feud is distracting from the menace posed by the Telmori shaman
Jogar Sog who is stirring up the wolfmen. This foreshadows the
conflict in 1620.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 2

KING OF THE SWINGERS
In fortunate years, sometime between the tribal market in
Fire Season and the tribal market in Earth Season, Bozdagan’s
Band arrives in Dangerford — to play a short season — then
heads on the Red Cow Fort and the Theater there, where
they remain until the first snows of winter.
The leader of the troupe of musical performers is
Bozdagan the baboon. He is also the lead singer of the
band; although many say his vocals are an ‘acquired
taste.’ Bozdagan’s three wives provide the chorus, whilst
his sons and daughters work behind the scenes, and carry
provisions on the trail.
Although Bozdagan leads the band, Puddleduck, a durulz
initiate of Issaries, is the band’s manager, organizing their
tour schedule, and passing around her magical hat into
which goes the collection for the night’s entertainment.
On the lyre is the centaur Zinger Hendrik, who also composes all of the bands songs. Puddleduck tries to keep Zinger
to short folk numbers that play well with the mostly rural
audiences, but Zinger fancies himself a composer of epics.
He moans about his ‘musical differences’ with Puddleduck,
claiming she has undue influence on the band.
Zinger is also the priest of Donander, the players’ god,
for the band and leads their ceremonies, most of which
take the form of musical performances with the audience
helping make up the numbers for the initiates to talk to
their god.

Gordius’ Judgment

In the comparative privacy of his luxurious tent, Gordius Silverus
compels Queen Ivartha to make peace with King Petrad and to
pay compensation for their dead and wounded.
In public, Jomes Hostralos reads out Gordius’ judgment.
His first judgment he tells everyone is the compensation due
to both parties. Do a rough totting up of the killings on each side
to arrive at a figure due to each side from the feud. The actual
payment made is any difference between the two. For example,
if the Emerald Sword clan owes the Red Cow one hundred cows
in wergild and the Red Cow owes the Emerald Sword fifty cows,
then the final payment would be fifty cows to the Red Cow.
His second judgment is to fine the parties for becoming
involved in a feud, telling them that the Governor, Fazzur
Wideread is determined to stamp out feuding. Gordius fines the
Emerald Sword clan forty cows, and then fines the Red Cow one
hundred cows, telling them that he is clear that they were the
main troublemakers throughout the feud. Broddi looks shocked.
The Red Cow ring looks angry; Kangharl and Darna are redfaced with rage. However, there is little the Red Cow can do but
accept this turn of events.

The Windwood brother are three satyrs from beast valley
who all play pan pipes. The brothers smoke too much hazia,
drink too much wine, chase too many local women, and
steal too much from their hosts for Puddleduck’s liking, and
she regularly has to resolve the mess.
Growl the trollkin leads a group of trollkin drummers.
They escaped from the Redwood Caverns where their owner,
a Zorak Zorani death lord, had trained to keep the beat for
his zombie army. The septet stomp, crash bronze symbols,
and beat out compelling rhythms on their drums. Everyone
dances when they play. Growl always seems to be on the
lookout for his former master, who he is sure is coming to
‘take us back, any day now.’
The ‘Noble Cats’ are the brass section. On the carnyx is
Saramiss, who claims he is a ‘Puma Person,’ a were-puma.
Saramiss claims there are many of his kind, though Minaryth
Purple famously claimed on meeting him that ‘there are no
Puma People in Glorantha’. Farmers though have reported a
large panther taking sheep when Bozdagan’s Band is in town,
and although Puddleduck claims it is nonsense invented by
Saramiss, she settles their claims. On the Cornu is Te Fang,
who comes from far-off Kralorela. He says he is a ‘Tiger
Son’ a were-tiger, but Garval Shvetop has called him a liar.
There are stories about would-be theives encountering a
large striped cat prowling the band’s tents, but Puddleduck
dismisses such talk as locals ‘high on hazia.’

PLAY OF THE GAME
This episode ends this story and contains no crisis for the PCs
to fix, but has many opportunities for interacting, perhaps for
the first time, with the ‘movers and shakers’ outside the Red
Cow clan.
The PCs may well be angered that an outside force imposes a
settlement. Capitalize on this anger with approaches to the PCs
by Farandar and Kullina who endeavor to recruit them to the
rebellion.
Gordius Silverus’ judgment is a disaster for the Red Cow;
deplete the Red Cow’s Wealth Resource by -6.
The clan is shocked that the Empire could show such strong
bias against them. The Moon Winds amidst the clan point out
that if the Red Cow accepted the Lunar religion then perhaps
Gordius Silverus would have supported them. This, they say, is
the new reality, that the client tribes and kings will prosper and
those who oppose the Empire will lose out.

1618

55

• Chapter 3 •

1619

CONFLICTS
CHAOS FLOOD
The Lunar Empire has always included Chaos within its religion
— and its acceptance of the entropic forces that nearly broke the
world is a cornerstone of the conflict between the Red Moon and
the Storm Gods.
Whilst many within the Heartland choose to overlook the
horrific nature of Chaos, the Lunar Empire is able to employ
Chaotic demons such as the Crimson Bat as terror weapons to
cower the provincial populace.
The side-effect of such a display is that Chaos throughout
Dragon Pass is stirred from its nests.
The Red Cow’s Chaos foes in the Great Darkness were ogres,
and the power of the Bat flushes out the Chaotic evil concealed
within the clan.

THE RING

The Kultain tribe rises against the Lunars, capturing and
drowning an entire caravan of concubines traveling to the priests
around Whitewall. After supernatural efforts, the priests capture
the Kultain king and drown him in successively more awful
liquids. After his death, the Lunars break up the Kultain tribal
regalia. A few of its clans join other tribes, but the Lunars force
the majority to swear loyalty to the small Sylangi tribe.
High King Broyan and the Volsaxi retreat to the fortress city
of Whitewall. Detachments of the army lay siege to the fortress
whilst the remainder continue to march south.
During his absence, Fazzur Wideread gives Jomes Hostralos
command of the garrison forces in Sartar. Queen Ivartha and
other members of the Jonstown Confederation express concern
— with Jomes spending more of his time in Boldhome, advising
Prince Temertain, who will watch the Telmori?
The rebellion tries to disrupt Fazzur’s supply lines, ambushing
Lunar caravans along the roads and rivers between Tarsh and
Whitewall. Orstalor Spearlord leads his Mudhens up and down
the Creek, disrupting Lunar shipping and Venharl Stormbrow
raids the mule trains along the royal road between Dangerford
and Boldhome.
Fazzur tells Jomes to “secure the rear, quash those bandits” and
Jomes sends word to the garrisons across Sartar — no tolerance
of banditry. He ‘persuades’ Prince Temertain to remind everyone
of their commitment to keep the royal roads free of brigands.
Manhunt deals with the fallout of this edict for the Red Cow.
If the PCs have not yet completed the Stealing of the Giant’s
Cows heroquest, one option is to run it now.

Frekor Deep-Woods becomes concerned about the rising of a
new leader amongst the Telmori — Jogar Sog. He is particularly
concerned that with Jomes in Boldhome, the Telmori will choose
to attack.
Kullina the Fat demands that the Red Cow aid the southern
Orlanthi by supporting Orstalor and Venharl in raiding the
Lunar supply train.
Broddi Strong-Kin refuses to allow the clan to be drawn in.
Farandar Orendalsson makes contact with the rebels, and leads
small groups to aid Orstalor in attacking the Lunars up and down
the Creek. The farmers complain he is ignoring them, and Griselda
Gray-Tresses has to rein him in. She tries to encourage the clan to
improve its relations with its allies, and make peace with its enemies.

FIRE SEASON

THE HERO WARS

DARK SEASON

The Crimson Bat moves through Sartar on its way south. The
local chieftains are cowed for years to come.

SEA SEASON
General Fazzur Wideread marches the Lunar Army southward.

56

The Lunar Army assaults Smithstone, and then marches downriver
to Karse. After a failed assault, the army lays siege to the city. After
some weeks, many of the besieged defenders escape by ship, leaving
only the locals who are overpowered when dragonewt mercenaries
storm the walls. Fazzur Wideread spares the common people and
prevents his troops from sacking the city.

Fazzur Wideread’s army winters in Karse, active only in vigorous
defense against raiders from Hendrikiland. By the next spring,
the port is open.
The Empire sends the Crimson Bat to help the siege of
Whitewall. The initial part of this event is captured in the scenario
The Crimson Bat Comes to Sartar in Sartar Companion; we cover
the Red Cow involvement in Flight from the Bat. The Bat resides in

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 3

Dangerford for a week and 25 people are offered to sate its hunger
on Freezeday. Ivar Quickstep solves the problem of providing ‘food’
for the Cinsina tribe, by offering up Orlanthi traditionalists from
the Dolutha — at one stroke removing most of his opponents
in the clan, and terrorizing others. The Feeders search for Ashart
Dusk-Eater but he hides out in Torkan’s Vale. The Bat continues,
spending a week in Jonstown and Fox Hollow, bringing horror.
Snakepipe Hollow is a nest of Chaotic horrors to the north
of Sartar (Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes page 239). Every so often, it
vomits forth terrors to trouble the surrounding lands. The passage
of the Crimson Bat causes Snakepipe Hollow to spew out creatures
this year and they follow the Crimson Bat south like a tide,
overwhelming the tribes and clans without discrimination. Broo
and Scorpion Men raiders are the most common problem (Sartar
Companion, page 97 and page 137) but other Chaotic horrors
such as Dragonsnails and Gorp in the rivers, and Walkatapi and
Jack O’Bear plague the clans too (Sartar Companion, page 103).
Broo raiders make their way from Snakepipe Hollow into
Torkan’s Vale (see Sartar Companion, page 97). A female broo
shaman, Hewuha, leads the band. She worships Malia, the
mistress of disease, and is determined to afflict the clan with
disease, to that they will propitiate Malia for relief. She poisons
the Wandle River, concealing jars containing disease spirits
upriver of the Red Cow to pollute their water.
The PCs might become involved in driving the broos from
Torkan’s Vale, or traveling to Jonstown to seek help from the
White Healers (see Sartar Companion page 21).
Queen Ivartha is present at Red Cow (as she always is in Dark
Season) and begins to organize the defense against the Chaos
flood. She sends for Toltar Gors-Born, who is wintering with the
Pol-Joni in the Good Place in Prax (perhaps the PCs are asked to
fetch him). A series of desperate battles are fought against broo
raiders along the Creek, with one of the nastiest a stand against
Chaos at Isle Dangerous.
During the winter, the Red Cow suffers from their ancient
enemy ogres, enduring the experiences outlined in episode The
Horror in The Dark.

IMPORTANT NPCS
• Broddi Strong-Kin
• Ortossi Ketilsson
• Jaranil the Thunder
• Kangharl Black-Brow
• Gringle Harvest-King
• Ashart Dusk-Eater
• Ivartha the Skinner
• Vastyr Bloody-Shirt
• Aethelric the Girl
• Orstalor Spearlord
• Kostajor Wolf-Champion
• Black-Paws Helkos
• Toltar Gors-Born
• Camille the Quick
• Janara the Swarthy

THE BAT’S LEGACY
The Crimson Bat leaves the Sartarites too frightened to
rebel. Although they might outnumber the garrisons in
their forts, everyone knows the Empire has used the Bat
against them before, to destroy Runegate; surely, the
Emperor would have no hesitation in using the Crimson
Bat again? Whenever a rebel leader’s plans seem too bold
someone says: “But what of the Crimson Bat?” The elders
mutter agreement, and the plans are dropped.

MANHUNT
BEGIN WITH
Broddi slumps in his high seat, a resigned expression on his face.
You are not surprised to find Jaranil the Thunder, a Wind Lord of
Orlanth and the leader of the chieftain’s Housecarls there; nor are
you surprised to see Borngold Many-Brothers there — perhaps
your summons to the great hall was because of the ongoing threat
from the Telmori wolfmen, and apart from Frekor or Aethelric
the clan has few more experienced wolf fighters than Borngold;
you are not surprised to find Kangharl Black-Brow here either,
last year’s settlement with the Emerald Sword pleased no one,
and he continues to put pressure on the Red Cow to crush their
troublesome neighbors; nor are you surprised to find the ring
gathered. What would be more correct than for the chieftain
to consult his advisors on such weighty matters? The presence
of the Lunar garrison commander Phargentes Grinning-Scar,
and the priestess from the Seven Mother’s mission Sureela FarTraveled does surprise you. Why is the Empire interfering in
your clan’s affairs again! A fat man with a red face and a strong
Tarshite accent accompanies them. As you enter you hear him
blustering about “bandits and thieves!”
Perhaps most disturbing of all is that in one corner stands a
strange man who has a dog’s nose where his own should be!
An exasperated Phargentes tells the fat man to be quiet.
“Chief Broddi,” Phargentes begins, “you are bound by
obligation to the House of Sartar to keep the kingdom’s roads
free. I sympathize with your dispute with the Emerald Sword
clan, but Prince Temertain demands that the roads are open so
that merchants of his friend, the King of Tarsh, can easily pass
through his kingdom.”
Two members of the clan ring, Farandar and Kullina
exchange a wry smile at the mention of the Lunar puppet in
Boldhome.
Phargentes holds a scroll in his hand, with a prominent
large wax seal on its base. Even if you cannot read the scroll, you
recognize the seal — that of the House of Sartar, to whom your
tribe has sworn loyalty.
Broddi rises from his high seat with a resigned expression.
“Very well Phargentes, if your soldiers will not hunt down these
bandits in Stagland for fear of the wolfmen, then members of the
Brave Tribe will.”

1619

57

Phargentes looks ready to respond when the dog-nosed man
puts a hand on his arm and shakes his head.
Broddi nods toward the PCs, “I can spare these brave sons
and daughters of Karganar Blood-Eye to accompany your bounty
hunter.” Broddi nods first toward the PCs and then towards the
dog-nosed man and strides out of the room with a weary sigh.

CAST
Broddi Strong-Kin, Gringle Harvest-King, Borngold ManyBrothers, Kangharl Black-Brow, Phargentes Grinning-Scar,
Buthur Dog-Nose, Sureela Far-Traveled, Farandar Orendalsson,
Kullina the Fat, Vogarth Hearth-Guard, Invarth Red-Cloak,
Argrath Arkelsson

pulled Gringle out from his brother’s shadow. Gringle’s wife,
Orsta frightens Vogarth though.
Since Gringle moved to Brightwater village, affairs at
Sevenoaks have declined. His brother Vogarth has fallen back
into his old ways and continues to run through the wealth
Gringle brought to the village. Few there seem to care while
Vogarth’s feasts continue.
Thane: Vogarth Hearth-Guard gsj
Clan: Osmanning
Faction: The Conquering Storm
Age: 48
Keywords: Thane

THANE: VOGARTH HEARTH-GUARD gsj

Magic: Initiate of Orlanth s

Vogarth is a brutal bully who despises the weak and fears only
the strong. He intimidates and cajoles those who meet him into
getting what he wants.
Scorning the farmer’s life in favor of making a living from
raiding and banditry, his axe, Foe-Reaper has taken many lives
among the Maboder, Dinacoli, and Culbrea. Many still nurse
grudges against Vogarth, not lessened by the intervening years.
Despite this, Vogarth believes the young men should live as he
did, taking what they want from their enemies and those too weak
to hold themselves. “Violence is always an option,” he reminds his
kin. Despite advancing years, he still leads raids, favoring the rich
picking to be had from the mule trains on the road to Jonstown or
in the Quivin Mountains on the way to Boldhome.
He despises his brother Gringle as ‘weak.’ He bullied Gringle
for years before Gringle’s marriage to Orsta. Orsta’s influence

Look: Dark shaggy mane of hair, livid scar on left
cheek, long black beard

58

THANE: INVARTH RED-CLOAK gsj
Invarth is a tall strong man with a hasty temper. He has killed
Dinacoli, Maboder, and Culbrea men on raids. He is merciless
and thinks nothing of killing injured foes and cares little for the
possibility for ransoming hostages back to their kin. He regards
every hostage as a potential future enemy who would seek
vengeance. He has left a trail of grieving relatives behind who
would gladly see him dead.
Broddi regards Sevenoaks stead as the ‘misfit house’ or ‘trouble
stead’ of the Red Cow clan where the troublemakers tend to
congregate. When he worries about the impact of the clan’s

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 3

warriors on relationships with the Empire and their neighbors
— it is exactly these people he worries about. Invarth glories in
this reputation, as the clan’s ‘bad-boy.’
His wife Harla Gray-Skirts goads him to try raids that are
more ambitious and bring back plunder — especially plunder
she can wear to show her husband’s skill: gold armlets, fine
earrings and broaches.
Thane: Invarth Red-Cloak gsj
Clan: Osmanning
Faction: The Conquering Storm
Age: 44
Keywords: Thane

Her history with the Red Cow is troubled. Argrath Arkelsson
divorced her for adultery with Kalf Triplet-Borne and Darna
Longcoat adopted their daughter, Saroosa Dark-Wyrd. Orsta remarried into the clan, but never recovered the custody of her
daughter. She despises Darna for that.
Orsta’s second marriage was to Gringle Harvest-King. She
has tried her best to restore Gringle’s family, the Osmannings
of Sevenoaks, from their reputation as the ‘Trouble People’ of
the clan. Yet, Gringle’s brothers remain thugs who care little for
reputation and a lot for gold.
Orsta has contacts among the trolls of Sazdorf tribe in the
Haunted Ruins (Sartar Companion, page 232), and runs a
profitable trade with them, exchanging crafted goods for insect
foodstuffs and products, that fetch a high price in Jonstown.

Magic: Initiate of Orlanth s

Trader: Orsta Trades-With-Trolls elx

Look: Hair in long single braid, broken nose, long
black beard

Clan: Osmanning
Faction: Free Sartar
Age: 41

THANE: ARGRATH ARKELSSON
Argrath Arkelsson’s first marriage was a disaster. He married Orsta
Trades-With-Trolls at the urging of his mother, unaware that Orsta
loved another, Kalf Triplet-Born. Orsta tried to make the marriage
work, and bore Argrath a daughter, but his unwillingness to settle
down to life as a farmer, and continual risk-taking with Farandar
Orendalsson, pushed her into Kalf’s arms. With feelings running
high, and the clan fearing kinstrife, Argrath was pressured into
divorcing Orsta and letting Darna Longcoat foster his daughter.
Embittered, Argrath spurned love and turned to Farandar
Orendalsson to make his fortune, accompanying him on raids,
and eventually the restoration of Eoric’s Stead from its haunting.
Argrath had almost erased the association of his name with those
events when Orsta married his cousin Gringle Harvest-King,
igniting old wounds. Vogarth persuaded Argrath that he too had
been ‘betrayed’ by the Red Cow and denied his fair lot in life.
Warming to the message of anger, Argrath moved to Sevenoaks
and joined Vogarth’s raids. The fact that Vogarth’s raids make life
difficult for Gringle only makes Argrath happier.
Argrath’s anger still burns. Orsta, Gringle, and Darna remain
enemies and he still burns to see their downfall.
Thane: Argrath Arkelsson gjt
Clan: Osmanning
Faction: The Wolfskinners
Age: 31
Keywords: Thane
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth g
Look: Bald-headed, short beard, twitch to left eye
when angry

TRADER: ORSTA TRADES-WITH-TROLLS elx
Descended from Esrolian Queens, Orsta has a commanding
presence. Her ancestors visit her in her dreams — and speak of
her daughter’s destiny.

Keywords: Merchant
Magic: Initiate of Ernalda l
Look: Gold and Silver jewelry; graying hair;
plump figure

SITUATION
Unknown to Broddi, the ‘bandits’ are not outsiders but
members of the Red Cow’s trouble stead; Vogarth, Invarth, and
Argrath lead them. Misdirecting their actions as ‘for the rebel
cause’, the Sevenoakers’ real motive is to get rich quick because
they are too lazy or embittered by life for hard work, bent over
a plough. Vogarth and his men sell their stolen goods at Horse
Rest, where the Two-Pine turn a ‘blind eye’ to the disposal of
plunder from raiding.
Gringle, the Osmanning patriarch at Brightwater, suspects
this household is behind the banditry on the Old Saint’s Road;
Farandar and Kullina both know the ‘bandits’ identity and turn a
blind eye, even encourage the raids provided they fall on Imperial
traders. Kullina tries to persuade the Sevenoakers to tithe a
portion of their raids to the rebellion, with little success so far.
Farandar has provided Argrath, an old friend, with information
on the traders passing through Red Cow Fort.
Darna’s adopted daughter, Saroosa Dark-Wyrd, perhaps
embittered by the tug of war between her birth mother, Orsta
Trades-with-Trolls, and her foster mother Darna, wants to
initiate to Humakt and sever ties with her family. Indeed her
gloomy, fatalistic nature and withdrawn behavior has led many
to speculate that she will likely present the Death Rune at her
initiation. Darna will hear no talk that she will not initiate to
Ernalda, and Saroosa, who knows her foster mother’s controlling
nature better than any has fled their home. She intends to seek
out Orkarl at Eoric’s Stead to initiate her to Humakt. But first,
she wants to say goodbye to her birth parents, Orsta and Argrath,
before asking Orkarl.

1619

59

Buthur is hunting for Venharl; Sureela has put up the reward
and provided the information that she believes he is hiding at
Brightwater or Sevenoaks. The recent banditry has provided an
excuse for Sureela to send Buthur to sniff around those steads.
Sevenoaks village will connect all these people, as hunters
and hunted come together in one place.

LOCATIONS
Brightwater, Sevenoaks, Stagland, Horse Rest

ACTS, SCENES AND BEATS
THE BRIEFING

Jaranil the Thunder, Borngold Many-Brothers, Kangharl BlackBrow and the dog-nosed man approach the PCs.
Jaranil will speak to the PC who is an Orlanth initiate with
the highest divine rune (and thus best known to the Wind Lord)

— assuming that they are the leader of the PCs’ group. “This is
Buthur, a bounty hunter from the Empire,” he says introducing
the dog-nosed man. “Baranath,” he indicates the red-faced
merchant, “has hired him to bring the bandits who robbed him
to justice.”
Ask the players how their PCs feel about Buthur. He is a
foreigner from the Empire and seems to be part dog. The Red Cow
are descended from the cat god Yinkin and have a long history of
enmity with dog people; the Telmori being just the latest.
Jaranil tells the PCs, “The attacks have taken place on the
Jarolar Trail — Phargentes believes that the bandits camp out
in Stagland. The trail is safe as far as Brightwater, the attacks
occurred beyond that. Gringle Harvest-King, the patriarch of
the Osmanning, is at Brightwater, and I would ask him to help
you — if anyone knows more about the bandits it will be him.
“Buthur will be able to track the bandits, if you can find
something he can pick up their scent at the ambush site.” Jaranil
continues, “That will be the best place to begin your search.”

PLACES
BRIGHTWATER
Once this village was on the border with the Split Waters clan
of the Maboder, and now lies on the border with Stagland.
The Split Waters and Red Cow often feuded and the raids
fell upon Brightwater. Since the destruction of the Maboder
the threat is from the Telmori instead. As a result, outside
of Red Cow Fort, Brightwater has a palisade wall and a
watchtower, for defense. The bloodline pressurizes Broddi
to allow them to clear more land in Stagland for grazing.
There are 37 people in the stead. 21 are adults and 16
are children of varying ages. Of the adults, four are elders.
From the remaining 17, six are wives, originally from another
clan. The other 11 are adults, eight men and three unmarried women.

SEVENOAKS
Lying northwest of Brightwater and Eoric’s Stead, it is relatively poor. Sevenoaks is the ‘misfit house’ or ‘trouble stead’
where the quarrelsome, lazy, bungled and the botched of the
clan seem to gravitate to cause trouble. It is a village of halfcarls and cottars, a village of pigs and sheep with few cows.
There are 12 people in the stead. 6 are adults and 6 are
children of varying ages. Of the adults, one is an elder. From
the remaining five, one is a wife from another clan. The
other four are adults: three men and one unmarried women.
The thanes and carls at these two villages are from the
Osmanning bloodline, and within two degrees of kinship.
The cottars come from across the clan; the wives come
from mostly neighboring Cinsina clans.

HORSE REST
This large village is the center of the Two-Pine clan. Some
think the settlement gets its name for being a stopping
point for travelers going from Jonstown to Jarolar Keep,

60

but the village actually gets its name from being where the
Two-Pine mercenaries rest over the winter.
Horse Rest is home to 400 members of the Two-Pine clan;
220 are adults and 180 children. There are thirty-six elders of
the clan here (60+). There are 60 thanes here, including the
chieftain, his ring, and the priest and priestess of the clan.
Most of the other thanes and ‘carls’ are full time soldiers
who earn their living as sell-swords — possession of sword,
spear, cuirass, mail, or linothorax is more important to the
status of ‘carl’ than a plough team or oxen. The thanes also
own horses, and the cottars who don’t yet have the kit to
count as full-time warriors can serve as auxiliaries, hoping
to win their own equipment on a successful campaign.
The thanes here vie against each other to win men to their
service — the more spears a man can command, the better
he can negotiate a price from potential employers.
Horse Rest is often half-empty in Fire Season, with most
of the mercenaries away and only their families and the old
and infirm present. Most of them drift back in Earth Season;
there is little harvest here, but as war slows elsewhere so
do the offers of employment. In Dark Season, the village is
packed with returned soldiers wintering with their families.
By Storm Season, Horse Rest can seem a little crowded
and drunken brawls are not uncommon. In Sea Season,
the soldiers often ‘warm up their skills’ with cattle raids
on their neighbors, and the thanes begin traveling away
to Jonstown or Boldhome to look for contracts for the
forthcoming campaigning season.
Like most settlements that border on Stagland, Horse
Rest has a palisade wall to keep the inhabitants safe from
the Telmori, and the settlement often swells with travelers
on the Greenhaft Trail who need to stop for the night. A
single watchtower in the center of the village provides early
warning of attack.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 3

“Brightwater is also the safest place to be when Wildday
comes at dusk tonight,” Borngold Many-Brothers reminds them.
“I will accompany you that far, to ensure you are safe tonight.
We still dispute Stagland with the Telmori and their packs hunt
there. Without magic or iron you can’t penetrate a werewolf ’s
hide, so it’s best to stay safely in Brightwater with Gringle until
the day after tomorrow.
“I have my own suspicions,” Borngold adds, “that the
Telmori are behind these attacks.”
Jaranil shakes his head when Borngold blames the Telmori,
but says nothing.
Buthur just listens, saying little, and giving one-word
answers. He has no interest in the PCs, who he looks down on.
Kangharl tells PCs not to believe that rebels are behind the
banditry on the Jarolar Trail: “If you ask me no one needs to
look any further than the thugs at Horse Rest. I’d confront their
chieftain Kulbrast Offirson, or even better his wife, Isbarnessa
Boarscar. She is the one who really runs that clan now.”
Find my Daughter

After the briefing, Darna Longcoat approaches the PCs. Her eyes
are puffy, and her usually immaculate appearance seems rushed,
neglected. Kangharl Black-Brow steadies her, providing an arm
to lean on. “My daughter is missing. With the Telmori stirring
under a new leader Jogar Sog and raiding our borders, the clan
has too few people to send a search party for her. Search for her
in Brightwater and Sevenoaks for me. Please. Her birth parents
are there and she may have made some foolish move to return to
them.” Darna pauses to wipe tears. “I will be in your debt for this.”
This is an unusual opportunity; Darna resists being in
anyone’s debt. If any of the PCs are already in her debt, she may
simply call in that favor now. If the debt does not cancel a PC’s
debt give the PCs a Directed Improvement for the Ability Owed
a Favor By Darna Longcoat. If a PC agrees to look, but then
fails to locate Darna’s daughter, consider giving the PC a Flaw of
Failed Darna Longcoat.
Buthur overhears the conversation and interjects: “If you
have something of your daughter’s, I can track her. My price is
twenty silver Jonstown guilders — a reasonable fee for the return
of one to you so dear.”
Darna wipes away her tears, and passes a piece of folded
material to Buthur, “She loved this snood, if you can find her,
then you will have your reward.”
Darna clutches at the shoulder of the PC leader as they leave.
“I would rather not be in debt to a Moon Dog,” she tells them.
“Find her if you can.”
Collaborators

Later, Farandar Orendalsson and Kullina the Fat approach any of
the PCs who have shown rebel sympathies — out of earshot of
Buthur and Phargentes. “The Empire presses High King Broyan
hard in Heortland, they hope to take Whitewall, and with that crush
Orlanth. Fazzur’s supply lines for his campaign in the south are long,
running from Tarsh, through Sartar and into Volsaxiland. The rebels
attacking his caravans may yet halt his advance to the south.
“Whoever these bandits are,” Farandar tells them, “they are
distracting Phargentes and drawing Lunar units here, instead of

the royal road. Lead this Buthur on a ‘wild goose chase’ for a few
days, but don’t bring him to the rebels. Gringle knows what to
do, he won’t sell the rebels out, if he knows where they are.”
Next Steps

Jaranil gives the PC with the highest Air Rune one of the clan
treasures to use during the Patrol — a Lightning Band. The PC
can use the clan’s Magic Resource rating to Augment his own
Air Rune when hurling lightning bolts from his spear. (This is
a loan, and represents the PCs gaining Community Resources
for the episode.) Borngold tells the PCs to remember, “If you
meet Telmori in Stagland, you will need magic to drive them
off.” Jaranil also tells the PCs to take horses from the stables
near the Great Hall.
From here the direction is up to the patrol leader. Most likely
they will follow Jaranil’s advice to visit Brightwater first, and
continue the search from there.
Buthur will only talk to the ‘leader’ of the PC group,
following the cue given by Jaranil. If asked where he wants to
go first, he says, in heavily accented Sartarite: “Let us follow
suggestion of your leader and in Brightwater start.”

BRIGHTWATER
It is close to nightfall on Fireday when the PCs reach Brightwater.
With dusk, Wildday will come, and the Telmori will transform
into werewolves. Since the ‘Years in Hiding’ sensible folk have
taken shelter behind village walls in this region — people are
afraid of the howls of the wolves in the dark.
The patrol consists of Borngold, the PCs, Buthur, his
companions and a squad of seven Dogeaters reporting to him.
The squad speaks little Sartarite, and so do not interact with the
PCs, keeping to themselves.
Gringle will be eager to offer his kin hospitality and more
grudgingly, to their Lunar companions; he makes it clear — no
one should be outside on Wildday.
Gringle Harvest King

Gringle greets visitors to Brightwater and invites them into his
hall. He is warm towards his kin, but colder towards Buthur. At
one point he turns to a PC and asks, “Who is the dog, and who
holds his leash?”
In Sea Season, food is scarce, as the winter stores empty and
nature has provided no bounty yet to replace it. Nevertheless,
Gringle manages to provide the travelers with a hearty rabbit
stew and some cider to drink.
With Buthur present Gringle lies when asked what he knows
about the bandits, telling everyone: “We have seen no sign of
bandits this year, and we were not even aware that a caravan to
Lorthing Vale had been ambushed. I thought all the bandits were
along the royal road between Boldhome and Dangerford. Apart
from that we have had the usual troubles with a Two-Pine cattle
raid that took a few of our best milkers, and our hunters ran into
a Telmori pack in Stagland a week ago — they were lucky it was
not a Wildday. If you are not looking to recover our cows, or
drive off the wolfmen, I fear your journey here is wasted.”
Afterwards Buthur approaches the leader of the PCs, saying:
“Gringle is lying, I can smell it on him.” He sniffs the air as he

1619

61

speaks, to emphasize the point. “I want you to lead us on the Jarolar
Trail so I can sniff out the scent and track those bandits to their lair.”
Success in a contest by the PCs will reveal that Gringle is
hiding something. If the PCs speak to Gringle, or he learns of
the patrol’s intent, he speaks anxiously to the PCs. “I do have
contact with the ‘rebels’, who have been ambushing the caravans,
and they have been here — I will try to warn them to flee the
area. Buy me what time you can.”
Gringle means his kin at Sevenoaks, but won’t say that,
allowing everyone to think that he means rebels hiding in the
woods. Further contest success may reveal that Gringle continues
to conceal something.
Suspecting Gringle of subterfuge Buthur dispatches the Lion
and the Hunter to spy on him and Orsta.
Orsta Trades-With-Trolls

Neither Gringle, nor his wife Orsta are aware that Saroosa is in
the area, and if the PCs ask, deny all knowledge of her. Orsta
is visibly upset about the mention of both Saroosa and Darna.

Gringle tries to comfort her, but Orsta rebuffs him: “She is my
daughter, I carried her in my belly, and that bitch has no right,
no right, to raise her,” before storming out.
Gringle apologizes, before excusing himself to comfort his wife.
If asked about Saroosa’s father, Gringle will tell them that Argrath
is over at Sevenoaks stead, with ‘those no-good brothers of mine.’
If the PCs suggest heading over to Sevenoaks, Gringle tries
to dissuade them. “It is almost dusk, and the werewolf pack we
encountered recently may try their luck for a few sheep. This is
very upsetting for my wife; I thought we had put all this behind
us. I will handle this, leave it with me.”
Buthur produces the snood Darna gave him, saying, “I can
easily find her scent, and claim my reward from Darna. For a
small fee, perhaps five silver guilders, I would be willing to allow
mother and daughter a few moments, before returning her to her
guardian’s care.”
“Five guilders!” Gringle shouts, his face becoming red.
“You foul cur! I suggest you find Fazzur’s bandits, and leave
us alone.”
“Very well,” Buthur tells him, “but
back will I be, once we have dealt with
these bandits.”
In reality, Gringle is more
concerned that Buthur may sniff out
his kin as bandits if the patrol heads
there than about the price Buthur is
asking or upsetting Orsta.
Howl

Buthur climbs onto the palisade as
dusk falls. The Red Moon is full in
the sky behind him, and he turns
and raises his face to the Moon and
howls. An answering howl, that of the
Telmori werewolves comes from the
wilderness of Stagland. Everyone in
the stead shudders.
“I don’t trust him, he’s part wolf
himself,” Borngold says of Buthur.
Into the Night

The news that Saroosa has run
away spurs Orsta to look for her at
Sevenoaks where her father is. Once
the patrol has left, under the cover of
darkness she will head to Sevenoaks,
in the belief that Saroosa might be
seeking out her father Argrath. She
chooses to risk the danger of meeting
the Telmori to see her daughter. The
Hunter follows her into the night,
and the Lion returns to warn Buthur.
The PCs watch the Lion enter and
speak hurriedly to Buthur.
Buthur approaches Borngold and
the PCs leader, and informs them:
“Gringle’s wife has fled into the night.

62

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 3

She seeks her daughter, or to warn the bandits. Either way, I will
find her. You are charged with helping me by your chieftain, so I
expect you to follow me.”
“We would not leave one of our own to the werewolves,”
Borngold tells him.
Gringle is shocked, and hastily straps on his armor, grabbing
his axe and shield, urging Borngold, Buthur and the PCs to follow.
The Dogeaters remain in Brightwater — they are not charged with
the pursuit of “some local villager who decides to go wandering
on a Full Moon.”
Buthur and the Lion lead Borngold and the PCs in pursuit of
Orsta. Buthur has the piece of Saroosa’s clothing given to him by
Darna, and sniffs air ahead of him, sometimes dropping to all fours
and rooting through the earth. The trail leads them to Sevenoaks.
At Sevenoaks the PCs find Orsta, arguing loudly with
Argrath, as Vogarth and Invarth watch in amusement. On seeing
Buthur, Orsta approaches him.
“You said you could find my daughter for five guilders. Find
her for me now and you will have your reward,” she says.
Wolves howl in the near distance.
“They have her scent,” Buthur says. Turning to the Hunter
he smiles, “Well old friend, you sought to hunt werewolves, now
is your chance. The hunt is on!”
If the PCs don’t speak up, Borngold will offer his and their
services to track Saroosa down. Argrath asks to join them.
Vogarth and Invarth offer to help, “For five guilders as well.”
Orsta spits at them, but they laugh off her insult. “Why would
we go out on a Wildday night without pay?” they say?
The group heads off into the night.
After a half-hour, the PCs catch up with Saroosa; she tries
to sprint away, but the Lion will catch her if none of the PCs
do. Caught, Saroosa sobs and struggles against her father and
mother who try to comfort her.
She cries out, “I must find Orkarl at Eoric’s Stead!”
Eoric’s Stead is not far.
If the PCs succeed in a contest against a High resistance,
they realize they are being followed. If the PCs do not, then they
hear Buthur and the Hunter conferring in a language they do
not understand. Buthur cocks his head and scents the air, and
then approaches the PCs. “We are hunted, a group of Telmori
werewolves and their beast brothers. The fools are upwind, and I
have smelt every step they took. Such poor hunters are nothing
to be afraid of.”
The Hunter is eager to track them himself, and suggests
taking a group behind the shadowing Telmori whilst the main
group presses on to the safety of the palisade at Eoric’s Stead.
“Long ago you promised me the chance to hunt werewolves
in payment, old friend. It is time for you to make good on that
promise,” the Hunter tells Buthur.
Buthur nods his acknowledgement. Borngold decides to join
the Hunter, telling the PC leader to take Saroosa and her parents
to Eoric’s Stead, but asking if “you can spare one or two axes,
with good magic, to join us.” It is up to the PCs if anyone joins
the Hunter and Borngold.
A howl rises in the distance.
“They must know we have scented their pursuit. Run, run
now for Eoric’s Stead,” Buthur tells the PC leader.

However, the Telmori are not as foolish as Buthur believes.
They have laid their own ambush further down the trail, and the
hunters following Buthur and the PCs have deliberately exposed
themselves upwind to flush their quarry, Buthur and the PCs,
into the ambush. As the Hunter waylays the trailing group of
Telmori, Buthur’s group will stumble into the other ambush.
The Telmori werewolves waiting to ambush the PCs number
seven hunters, led by a brave, each accompanied by their wolf
brother. The chasing pack has just four hunters.
There will be at least one fight, and one side or the other
may outmaneuver the other to gain the upper hand. With their
wolf brother fighting at their side the Telmori are a Very High
resistance; against un-enchanted weapons or magic they are a
Nearly Impossible resistance.
Treat the encounter as an Extended Contest.
This is a tough fight, and the PCs may struggle. Have
Borngold fight alongside PCs who are struggling — treat this as
an Assist with a rating of 1W2.
Buthur hangs back from the fight.
Once the more competent PCs have had a chance to
triumph, but whilst other PCs continue to struggle, end the fight
with the arrival of Orkarl Iron-Beard. Orkarl is a killing machine
and his sword cuts through werewolf hide without pause. As
werewolves and wolves fall howling before him, the Telmori
objective changes to Disengage.
After the fight, Borngold and the Hunter skin the werewolves
they have killed. Orkarl refuses to allow the werewolves he killed
to be skinned, saying, “We should honor the fallen, not take
their hides as trophies.”
Saroosa tells Orkarl she wants to join Humakt. He nods, but
tells her he can do nothing now. “You must wait, for patience
is a virtue. But at your initiation daughter, I will speak for you,
and show you Death’s path, if you still long for it. I swear this.”
Saroosa seems mollified by his promise, and is content for
Orkarl and Borngold to take her back to Sevenoaks. Saroosa
agrees to spend time there, until Buthur returns to take her back
to Darna Longcoat.
Returning to Sevenoaks, observant PCs (a contest against
a suitable Ability) may notice Gringle spending time deep in
conversation with his brothers; they seem hostile and angry, but
he seems insistent. Gringle is warning his brothers that Buthur
and the PCs are searching for the bandits who have been preying
on caravans on the Old Saint’s Road, and that they need to lie
low, for now.

STAGLAND
With Saroosa returned to her parents, the patrol can
concentrate on finding the bandits. Buthur is eager to leave:
“The trail may grow so cold, that even I may not be able to
find it. We must leave.”
As Wildday turns to Godsday, and dusk turns to dawn, Buthur
demands that the patrol departs Brightwater for Stagland.
Bandit Trail

The PCs say goodbye to Borngold and Gringle and head into
Stagland. These ‘wild lands’ are light woodland, where the Red
Cow hunts but the PCs realize there are opportunities for ambush

1619

63

everywhere. Buthur regularly stops to sniff the trail, or root
about on all fours amidst the vegetation along the sides of the
road. After hours pass, near to the junction with the Greenhaft
Trail, Buthur eventually leads the patrol off the road to a clearing
where the bandits obviously camped and divided their spoils.
Broken amphorae from the caravan litter the ground. Buthur
sniffs everything, muttering, “They were here, this is where they
divided up the loot.
“I can track them from here,” Buthur tells the PCs
triumphantly.
The trail leads from the ambush site, through Stagland, to Horse
Rest. These are Two-Pine clan lands, and the PCs should be aware
that they are traveling in lands owned by a hostile clan. Game Masters
who want to create another encounter might have the PCs’ group
come across a Two-Pine hunting party in Stagland, before they reach
the clan’s border (see Encounter 27 in the Sartar Companion).

HORSE REST
Arriving at Horse Rest, the locals treat the PCs with contempt,
bordering on outright hostility. The PCs are from Red Cow, a clan
hostile to the Two-Pine and are accompanied by Lunar bounty
hunters. People jeer at them as they traipse through the muddy
streets. They will quickly be intercepted — such a large body of
armed men cannot pass without notice — and taken by thanes
of the clan to the chieftain’s hall.
In the Hall of Kulbrast Offirson

As is required by the Orlanthi hospitality rite, the Greeting,
Kulbrast Offirson offers the PCs ‘water’; he offers nothing else.
It is obvious he believes that the PCs’ presence here is trouble.
His wife, Isbarnessa Boarscar, the Ernaldan priestess with the
mutilated face sits at his side, often whispering into his ear.
If questioned about the bandits Kulbrast says he knows
nothing: “The Two-Pine sell their services to guard the caravans
that use these trails, protecting them from the Telmori. We do
not ambush them. Your accusation just inflames the ‘bad blood’
between our clans. Show more care in your words.”
If the PCs mention the stolen Red Cow cattle, Isbarnessa
goes red in the face with anger exclaiming, “Orlmarl!” She sends
one of Kulbrast’s housecarls to fetch him.
Orlmarl enters, and nods to Kulbrast. Orlmarl has been
drinking and has a haunch of beef in his hand; he is accompanied
by four of his sworn men. Isbarnessa asks him about the cattle,
and Orlmarl freely admits to having taken them.
“If you can’t keep your cattle safe, Red Cow, they you don’t
deserve them. Though I have to say that all that grass along the
Heort Creek,” he bites into the haunch and juices run down his
chin, “does make good beef.”
The PCs might rise to this goading. PCs who have the Air
Rune might have to treat it as a Flaw in a contest to remain calm
against such provocation. If the PCs become angry, Orlmarl
will happily exchange insults until Isbarnessa calls her husband’s
name, and he in turn tells Orlmarl and the PCs, “Orlanth’s
hospitality protects everyone in this hall. Do not anger the gods
by your words or actions!”
Orlmarl stares hard at Kulbrast and then he turns to the
most aggressive of the PCs. “If you want to settle this matter of

64

honor, I will meet you in seven days on Isle Dangerous, and we
can decide who Orlanth thinks has the right of it!”
Information

Malan Hardbargain approaches Buthur, the Lunar soldiers, and
the PCs. He is torn between preserving the neutrality of the
market at Horse Rest, and currying favor with the Empire, but as
the bandits are of the Red Cow, an old enemy of the Two-Pine,
he decides to reveal that Vogarth and Invarth are the ‘bandits’.
Selling the information for twenty pieces of silver, Malan
tells Buthur: “You are looking in the wrong clan. Ask the Red
Cow why three men from Sevenoaks village have been selling
amphorae of Tarshite wine and grain, stamped with Imperial
Army seals, in the market here lately. Either they have become
successful traders of late, or the bandits have paid them off.
Maybe they are the bandits!”
Buthur immediately realizes he is in a quandary. The PCs are
kin to Vogarth and Invarth, and Buthur does not know where
their loyalties lie.
“Your clan has sworn oaths to the House of Sartar to protect
the roads,” he tells them. “Your chieftain has ordered you to help
me bring these bandits to justice. Does not your god say, ‘Obey
chosen leaders?’ Swear now to help me apprehend them.”
Don’t give the PCs time to confer, ask them what their
choice is: swear or not. Remind the PCs that killing their own
kin is kinstrife — the worst thing that can happen in a clan,
the crime without compensation. The clan has sworn an oath
to the House of Sartar to keep the roads free of bandits after
all — and the Sevenoakers might be exiled as oath-breakers if
nothing else.
Buthur will leave anyone who does not swear to help him
behind, and head out to Sevenoaks in pursuit of the bandits.

SEVENOAKS
Buthur is keen to reach Sevenoaks before word reaches the
‘rebels’ — especially if some of the PCs refused to swear loyalty to
him. He is not sure if the residents of Sevenoaks are the bandits
he is seeking, or if Venharl himself is behind the raids and they
are accomplices, selling the plunder in Horse Rest. Riding into
Sevenoaks he is determined to interrogate the locals, and still
hopes to track down Venharl.
He also intends to drag Saroosa back to Darna, and increase
his profits for the whole trip.
Vogarth will meet all visitors to Sevenoaks. He is arrogant
and dismissive of both Buthur and the PCs authority — telling
them to “get off my land.” Buthur tries to rely on the PCs to give
him the advantage of numbers and asks them to detain Vogarth
whilst he searches the stead. That search quickly turns up Saroosa
who is hiding in a barn. She struggles and fights, but Vogarth
is quick to dismiss her, and tells Buthur to take her back to
Darna if that is what he came for. At every turn, Vogarth denies
knowing where Venharl is.
When his men find plunder from the Lunar caravans in a
root cellar, Buthur remains blinded by his pursuit of Venharl.
“So you sell Venharl’s goods in Horse Rest?” This may be the
first the PCs have heard that Buthur’s real quarry is Venharl —
though they will certainly have heard of the Sartarite rebel.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 3

The climax of events in Sevenoaks depend upon the PCs.
Buthur is determined in his pursuit of Venharl, and won’t accept
the locals do not know where he is. Some developments might be:
• Buthur offers Vogarth ten silver guilders to guide him
to Venharl. Vogarth might accept, leading Buthur into
Stagland where he intends to bushwhack him, relying on the
PCs to switch sides.
• The PCs persuade Buthur to “look the other way” by paying
him off, with loot taken from Vogarth, his brother, and
Argrath. Buthur is a bounty hunter not an agent of the
Empire, and he might be persuaded to drop the matter if
someone made it worth his while. Especially if he believes
that he will lose if it comes to a fight.
• Vogarth calls on the PCs as kinsmen to kill Buthur and his
men. Vogarth is happy to dispose of the bodies afterwards,
in return for any loot they carry, and keep silent if the PCs
tell Broddi and Phargentes that Venharl’s men ambushed
them, and Buthur was captured.
• The PCs persuade Buthur to arrest Vogarth, his brother,
and Argrath. Phargentes will be pleased, but Sureela will
be disappointed that Venharl was not captured. PCs who
collaborate in turning over their kin to the Empire will be
treated with suspicion for betraying their own, although
Broddi will be grateful to be rid of the Trouble People and
the demands for action from the Empire.
• Vogarth and Invarth decide to ‘take on’ Buthur and the
Lunars, hoping the PCs join them as kinsmen.
If the climax develops into a fight, Buthur will try to escape,
sacrificing the Dogeaters and his companions if he has to. If
he manages to escape then he will head for the wilderness of
Stagland, confident he can lose the PCs with his superior senses.
Should Buthur escape, he will head towards Stonegate
in Jomesland. With Tatoukal’s aid Buthur seeks to return to
Dangerford and there seek justice against the Red Cow from Illaro.
Illaro will dispatch orders to Phargentes, with instructions to force
Broddi to hand over the rebels who betrayed Buthur, or face heavy
fines. Broddi consents, but allows Farandar and Kullina to warn
the PCs before the Lunar garrison can appear to arrest them.

PLAY OF THE GAME
This episode, like The Missing, is designed to introduce the
players to elements of the setting. As such it is something of a
tour. This episode can introduce the Moon Dogs, the Two-Pine
clan, and the Telmori — it might be the PCs’ first encounter
with werewolves.
This episode is intentionally open, allowing the PCs to
explore the southern border of the clan at will, pushed by the
threat of banditry, but drawing them into the personal conflicts
within the clan. At some point it is likely the PCs will be faced
with the issue of helping Buthur or their kin. Each choice is
hard. The players’ reaction here may be influenced by the failure
of Vogarth and Invarth to help in the search for Saroosa.
Fighting with the residents of Sevenoaks risks kinstrife.
Broddi might subsequently outlaw the Trouble People, but

without any offense against the gods, such outlawry does not lift
the burden of kinstrife from the PCs if they kill their kin. Bear in
mind, if one of the Trouble People kills a PC, kinstrife is still the
result. The exact consequences of kinstrife are up to the Game
Master, but the usual impact is to hasten the Great Darkness and
invite chaos into the clan. The clan might decide that later events
in 1619 are the result of this kinstrife and choose to perform the
Summons of Evil in the Sacred Time of 1619 to purge the clan of
its curse. Playing that outcome out is left up to the Game Master.
Helping Buthur does the work of the House of Sartar, but
risks disapproval from the PCs’ kin, for collaborating with the
Empire. Farandar Orendalsson and Kullina the Fat will not trust
the PCs if they act for the Empire over their kin.
If the PCs side with the Trouble People against Buthur,
Broddi will be suspicious of any story they come up with to
explain his death, even if he allows Phargentes to believe it. If the
PCs betray Buthur but he escapes, the PCs will become Sword
Rebels, forced to live in hiding. Their kin will shelter them, and
give the food and a place to hide, but they must constantly be
wary of the Lunar garrison, Moon Dogs hunting them down, or
Moon Winds betraying them. The narrator is free to determine
how much they want this to intrude into future events in the
campaign, but ‘public’ appearances by the PCs should always
carry the threat of exposure for the their crimes. At the same
time, the PCs will have increased credibility with the rebellion.
It is possible that one of the PCs will agree to duel Orlmarl
at Isle Dangerous in a week.
On the day, Orlmarl will arrive in a chariot, pulled by two
horses, flying through the air. Darkot Strong-Thewed stands
beside Orlmarl in the chariot. Everyone at Isle Dangerous to
watch the duel is impressed — that is Hofstaring Treeleaper’s
charioteer they all say. People cheer — the PCs should get
the impression that it is their opponent everyone idolizes and
supports, not them. Darkot sets out the conditions of the duel
— to first blood, and the loser’s weapons and armor will belong
to the winner. Orlmarl should be a Very High resistance. With
no personal grudge against them, Orlmarl is not interested in
killing the PC, but in humiliating them. When interpreting the
contest outcome remember he is keener on making them look
foolish than on causing permanent injury. If the PC wins they
get a fine scale mail hauberk, helmet, sword, shield and spear.
The armor is clearly recognizable and the PC might want to take
an Ability of Armor of Orlmarl.
Because Orlmarl challenged them, the PC has the right to be
represented by a champion. Amongst the Red Cow housecarls,
Jarstak Bristle-Beard will happily step in for a PC who chooses to
decline the challenge. If Jarstak stands in for the PC in the fight,
then Orlmarl strikes with deadly force, cleaving Jarstak’s head in
two. As Jarstaks’ head falls to the floor he exults, “Orlanth! This
death was for my brother. Hallarax will be avenged! I will take
blood vengeance on all those who killed my brother!”
The consequences of any killing here resonate between the
Two-Pine and the Red Cow. Broddi and Kulbrast will settle for
the payment of wergild to prevent a feud, but there is bad feeling
about the incident in both clans.
If the PCs kill Orlmarl here, then he cannot help them travel
to the Underworld in the Three New Stars heroquest.

1619

65

The Crimson Bat

FLIGHT FROM THE BAT
BEGIN WITH
On wx1 the dire news from the north is confirmed — the
Crimson Bat, a Chaos demon controlled by Lunar sorcerers,
has come to Sartar — and is now in Dangerford. The red glow
hanging over Dangerford is clearly visible from Red Cow Fort.
The last time the Crimson Bat was in Sartar was during the
invasion of 1602. It leveled Runegate, and led the assault on
sacred Boldhome.

CAST
Broddi Strong-Kin, Gringle Harvest-King, Ashart Dusk-Eater,
Ivartha the Skinner, Vastyr Bloody-Shirt, Aethelric the Girl,
Orstalor Spearlord, Kostajor Wolf-Champion, Black-Paws Helkos

SITUATION
Sartar Companion outlines the Crimson Bat’s passage through
Sartar in: The Crimson Bat Comes to Sartar (for convenience, we
provide a brief summary of the relevant events below). Here we
present a Red Cow episode based on that event.

TROUBLE
The Red Inn

News of the Crimson Bat has driven many to wine. The Red
Inn, despite its connections to the Empire is over-flowing. With

66

Queen Ivartha here, many of her household are in the inn, along
with caravan guards, and Dogeaters from the garrison, warming
themselves by the great fireplaces. The chill of winter seems even
harsher with news of the Bat.
Puppeteers called “You Do,” are giving a show in the inn. They
are a husband and wife team, he lies on the floor to use hand
puppets, whilst she stands over him with string puppets. They
have two girls acting as assistants on either side with stick puppets.
Begin with the PCs in the inn, warming themselves by the
fire. Give them some time to ask questions about the Crimson
Bat. Most folk know only rumors of a terrible Chaos demon
that destroyed Runegate during the invasion. The Lunar soldiers
speak of the Crimson Bat as the steed of their Red Goddess, who
carried her to victory.
One of the Dogeaters, drunk on too much wine, throws his
bowl of wine over “You Do” shouting, “This puppet show is
dull.” He grabs one of the two assistants and shouts “Dance for
me. Dance! At least there would be entertainment in that!” His
comrades give him a drunken cheer.
The puppet show stops.
Vastyr Bloody-Shirt stands up, walks over and punches the
Dogeater in the face, and he goes down like a sack of barley.
“Manners!” he shouts. “I was enjoying the puppet show.”
At that the other Dogeaters stand up. One of them cracks
his knuckles. “I’m going to re-arrange that ugly face of your,” he
taunts Vastyr. Vastyr looks around; his eyes fix on the PCs’ table
and he says to them, “Well, aren’t you the Brave Tribe? There is a
brawl brewing here Red Cow, and I need some support.” At that
point the Dogeater punches Vastyr in the face.
Frame the contest as ‘giving the other side a good beating’
over deaths. A brawl breaks out between the Dogeaters and

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 3

THE CRIMSON BAT
The Crimson Bat is a Chaos demon alive in the Middle
World and bound in service to the Red Goddess. It takes
the form of a giant, crimson bat with multiple long tongues,
tentacles around its mouth, dozens of eyes all over its body,
and other hideous Chaotic details. The Crimson Bat flies
through the air with a distinctive slow beat of its wings. In
times of peace, it is some 20 yards from head to tail, with
a 90-yard wingspan.
The Crimson Bat exerts a pulsating red radiance that acts
in all ways as the Lunar Glowline for Lunar magicians. This
only affects Dangerford in this scenario.
Anyone approaching within a mile of the Bat hears its
terrible scream. Getting any closer is a contest against a
High resistance. Failure means that the PCs are to flee the
horror if possible. Seeing the Bat is another contest, but
against a Very High resistance. Coming within 20 yards
of the Crimson Bat is Nearly Impossible. In addition, the
Consequences of Defeat or Benefits of Victory from the
results carry forward to checks to stand in future encounters
with the Crimson Bat. A PC suffering a Complete Defeat will
always flee Crimson Bat in the future.

THE CRIMSON BAT COMES TO NORTHERN SARTAR
On Waterday, Fertility Week, Darkness Season, the Crimson
Bat and its cult leave the vicinity of Alda-Chur. For the next

Vastyr and the PCs. Vastyr shouts at anyone foolish enough
to draw a blade — this is a brawl and all that is expected to
be taken or given is punches, head-butts, kicks, and perhaps a
broken jar or chair leg. If any of the PCs persist, have Baztak,
the Great Troll bouncer appear early, to disarm and knock the
miscreant senseless.
Have the fight broken up by Baztak and the arrival of
Phargentes and Queen Ivartha, who admonish their sides,
throw coins at Erinala “for her trouble, and the damage” and
then take their respective ‘hotheads’ outside into the cold night
air to ‘cool off.’
If You Want Trouble

Ivartha drags them all back to the Great Hall, where she stays
in winter. When they arrive, she chews Vastyr and the PCs out.
“With the Empire looking for Bat Food,” she says, “you all
seem to be looking to make yourselves the winners in that deadly
lottery. Keep your heads, or I won’t be able to talk Phargentes out
of handing you over.
“If trouble is what you want, trouble is what you will get. You
can accompany me to Dangerford tomorrow, to see what is to be
done about this demon.”
Afterwards she orders stew for herself, Vastyr, and the PCs.
Camille the Quick and Janara the Swarthy join them. Make
introductions as Ivartha makes the PCs tell everyone something
about themselves, and then asks those members of her household
present to do the same.

four weeks, the Bat wanders northern Sartar, “visiting”
in turn Dangerford, Jonstown, and Fox Hollow, finally
arriving in the Killard Vale at the end of Illusion Week.
Each Freezeday, at least 25 people are offered to the Bat,
sometimes more.
The Bat and its Feeders terrorize the local tribes. The
Dinacoli and Cinsina tribes offer up rivals, feud starters, and
notable rebels. The Jonstown council sweeps Fools Hill and
offer beggars, outlaws, and clanless folk. The Culbrea tribe
suffers indiscriminate attacks by the Feeders; the horrified
tribal king can do nothing but watch in despair.
News of the Bat’s activities spread throughout Sartar.
The awful monstrous power of the Crimson Bat is made
clear: nothing can stop the Red Goddess.

THE BAT FEEDERS /?
The five Bat Feeders are elite warriors of the Crimson Bat.
They enable and assist the mundane functions necessary
for the regular feeding of the Bat and accompany and guard
the Bat’s priests.
The Feeders are distinctively garbed with crimson cloaks
and silver and red fanged masks. They are fearsome combat
specialists and expert hunters of human prey. They attack
with kopis and magical red fangs. Each leads a team of at
least five armed cult initiates on the hunts for Bat Food.

A DEMON IN DANGERFORD
Dangerford is in a state of panic, with refugees fleeing away
from the town. When the Bat approached Dangerford from
Alda-Chur a number of people fled as first a ‘low red star’
appeared in the sky; more fled as a broad crimson glow made
all the animals skittish; even more left when the screams drove
away the wildlife. When the Bat landed on Dead Horse Hill
most of the remaining folk ran. Most fled to kin within the
clan, some fled to kin outside the clan, and still others fled to
Red Cow Fort.
Those that remain do so out of a sense of duty, because
their fear over their property exceeds their fear of the Bat, or
foolishness.
Some Dolutha clanfolk decided to avoid becoming Bat
Food by joining the cult of the Crimson Bat as lay members.
Most were just scared, but the Bat Feeders promised them that
provided they found other people to feed the Crimson Bat, they
wouldn’t become Bat Food themselves. Desperate kin betray the
hiding places of the Dolutha rebels to the Empire, in fear of the
Crimson Bat.
Korolfin Longeye remains at his post, steadfast, like his god.
He has a few thanes to help him, but most have to try not to
tremble in fear every time the Bat screams. Korolfin tries to
protect the deserted village, fearing looting.
Paranoia and fear reigns within Dangerford. Those who
have not fled are hiding hoping to avoid becoming Bat Food, or
plotting to make sure somebody else is.

1619

67

On the Road

At first, the trail between Red Cow Fort and Dangerford seems
eerily quiet, even in winter. No birds hunt or sing, no squirrels
forage for nuts.
As the PCs progress they encounter stray cattle, pigs and
sheep moving in the opposite direction; animals that should be
safely stabled in a byre in the dead of winter. The animals are
skittish, stampede easily, and flee any attempts to capture them.
Many will die exposed out in the cold, but Ivartha tells everyone
there is no time to round them up. “We must look to people first
now,” she says.
Later, the PCs encounter their first refugees. Huddled against
the cold, an oxen pulling a cart jammed with possessions, the
elderly, and children. “The Crimson Bat, a Chaos demon has
come,” they say, “don’t go on to Dangerford, go back to Red
Cow Fort. Even High King Broyan and Queen Kallyr Starbrow
would be no match for that monster.”
The PCs may try to question the refugees, and can learn the
information about the situation in Dangerford above, if they can
calm someone long enough to talk to them. Most people just
want to be as far away from Dangerford as possible now.
Ivartha is resolute about continuing on to Dangerford. “I am
the Queen. I must look to all my people, those who flee, and those
who stay.” To the refugees she says, “Go! Find shelter in Red Cow
Fort with Broddi Strong-Kin. Tell him I said to take you in.”
The people will thank Queen Ivartha and hurry on, anxious
not to be too close to Dangerford now.
Vastyr and Camille exchange worried glances.
“Don’t worry, I’ll distract it with a giant wooden moth,” says
Janara. No NPC laughs.

Ivartha ignores this altercation — she is focused on heading
on to the fort.
The PCs might try to intervene. The guards are firm, and can
summon help if needed. However, they are also perturbed by
the Crimson Bat, and might be persuaded to let a simple family
flee if there are no rebels amongst them. Vastyr and Camille will
prevent violence here; they have no interest in stirring up the
Lunars with the Crimson Bat so close by, and will quickly warn
off players who look like drawing blades. Vastyr will even beat
them down if they try (a Very High resistance).
Camille the Quick questions the guards as to the whereabouts
of Korolfin Longeye. The commander of the guards shrugs. He
has no idea where Korolfin is: “Try Geo’s, drinking to blot all this
out I suspect,” he says, shaking his head.
Camille is concerned. “Korolfin Longeye is not a man to
desert his post, or fail to put guards on the gates of Dangerford.
This is bad!”
Ivartha leads them on, across the ford and to Dangerford
Fort. With every step, Lunar activity increases, the shrieks from
Dead Horse Hill grow louder, and the glow more intense.
Once they cross the ford at Isle Dangerous, the PCs can
clearly see the Crimson Bat resting atop the hill. Having the
courage to keep going when this Chaos demon is so close is a
contest. The resistance is Very High.
It takes the form of a giant crimson bat with multiple long
tongues, tentacles around its mouth, dozens of eyes all over
its body, with giant ticks crawling through its fur. It is some
20 yards from head to tail, with a 90-yard wingspan. A bright
crimson glow emanates from the Bat, suffusing the area.
Proscription

Enemy at the Gates

As the PCs approach Dangerford the crimson glow over the town
seems to rise higher and higher into the sky, until everything is
suffused with a scarlet glow. If the PCs ride horses, they struggle
to control them, once they get within a mile of Dangerford —
the animals do not want to approach any further. No skilled
horsewoman, Janara’s horse bolts and she holds on desperately.
Give a PC the chance to save her, if not, Queen Ivartha chases
down the bolting horse and reins it in. Janara chooses to walk
after that, unless one of the PCs offers her a lift on their horse.
If a male PC saves Janara, she will flirt with him, and try to get
him to let her on his horse with him. She will continue to flirt
with and tease the PC. Janara does not want anything; apart
from enjoying the game of proving she is pretty enough to get
whatever she wants from that PC.
The gates to Dangerford Village are guarded by Lunar
soldiers. As the PCs approach it is clear that a family and their
cart are being barred from leaving. The guards, who seem more
interested in the farmers trying to leave the fort, wave Queen
Ivartha through.
“Ivar Quickstep has given firm orders. No one leaves
Dangerford Village. Now return to your homes,” says the
commander of the Lunar soldiers, a member of the Tarshite
Light Foot.
“But please sir,” says the farmer, “I have a wife and children,
let me get them away from that demon.”

68

Should the PCs still be with Ivartha, she approaches the gates of
the fort. Hastur Tarsh-Born is on guard, and he refuses to allow
her entry to Dangerford Fort, telling her that Ivar is in conference
with the Garrison Commander and asked not to be disturbed.
Queen Ivartha turns to one of the PCs, one who she believes
is tough, and says, “Persuade him!” It is up to the PC to decide
how to persuade Hastur. If the PC fails, Vastyr steps up and lays
him out with a punch, and then leads everyone over his prostate
form into the Fort.
When Ivartha and the PCs enter Ivar’s hall, he is seated at
a table with Illaro Broken-Back and a man wearing a silver bat
mask. Both are wrapped in furs against the cold, though a fire
burns. Lunar scribes scribble furiously as Ivar dictates, “Hallarax
the Last Orlanthi, Ashart Dusk-Eater,” then Ivar falls silent at
Ivartha’s entry.
“Dear Queen Ivartha, welcome,” says Illaro, “Ivar was just
helping me prepare a list of proscribed persons. The Bat must
be fed, and according to my colleague, Mernapur, we must
find twenty-five souls to feed it this week. A fine chance to rid
ourselves of some troublemakers, don’t you think?”
“You will not feed my people to that demon,” Ivartha begins.
“Of course,” Illaro replies. “If you and your companions
would like to take their places, I am sure your people would
sing of your self-sacrifice. No? How sad, such a wasted chance
for skalds to sing of you. Still perhaps you could find me Kallyr
Starbrow, Orngerin Thundercape, Venharl Stormbrow, and

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 3

Orstalor Spearlord? I thought not. Then join us and decide who
we should proscribe instead.”
Ivartha turns to Camille and nods to the PCs, “Get out of
here, I will see you at Geo’s later. Vastyr, you stay with me.”

If PCs question Korolfin’s lack of action he retorts, “This clan
already knows too well the anguish of kin killing kin. Should I
kill kin, to end the killing of kin?”
Geo’s Creek Inn

Fear and Loathing in Dangerford

Camille takes them through the streets of Dangerford. “First we
must find Korolfin,” she tells them. She heads toward the cult
center and the Elmal temple, believing that she will find him there.
When the group reaches the temples they find a group of
armed men, surrounding a woman and her crying children.
The farmer and his family gather in front of the corner statue to
Ernalda. “Help us mother Ernalda,” the woman cries.
Korolfin stands between the mob, lay members of Crimson
Bat, and their quarry. “You shall not have this woman, she is your
kin, and you will bring doom on the clan,” Korolfin tells them.
Baranwulf, one of the mob shouts: “Doom has already fallen
on the Dolutha! When Brofin killed King Garralor, he cursed
us all. This woman gave bread to that rebel priest, Hallarax.
She should become Bat Food for that, and with her life she will
purchase ours.”
“Help Korolfin,” Camille tells the PCs.
Again the choices here are up to the PCs: fight the gang,
intimidate them, etc. Korolfin will not fight to kill his kin, so
will hang back and let the PCs intercede. Korolfin is paralyzed
between his desire for right action, and his unwillingness to
bring further kinstrife to the Dolutha. If forced to fight, he will
try to wound or stun his kin.
After the fight, Korolfin will be grateful to Camille, who he
knows, and the PCs. He tells them that Dangerford has “lost
its mind” as kin turn on kin in an effort to avoid becoming Bat
Food. “This is a test, the Great Darkness is upon the Dolutha,”
he tells them, “and now the Eater of Skin tries us.”
Korolfin and Camille converse in private for a while, and
then she takes them to Geo’s.

A number of lay members of the Crimson Bat loiter outside
Geo’s. They believe that rebels probably hide inside, but are too
afraid of Geo’s protective magic to enter.
Inside Geo’s is surprisingly empty — most folks had enough
sense to leave.
Camille introduces the PCs to Inganna, a woman with a
hooded blue cloak with wolf fur trim, long braid, and a scarred
face. Camille asks after Hallarax but Inganna shakes her head.
Wherever the old man is, he has not made it here.
Give the PCs a few moments to interact, and Vastyr and
Ivartha enter the room. Ivartha walks up to Inganna and Camille
and tells them that Hallarax the Last Orlanthi was captured in
a hayloft, betrayed by his own niece. He has been taken to the
Crimson Bat for sacrifice.
Ivartha warns the PCs against any rescue attempt, but tells
them: “Get Ashart Dusk-Eater to safety in Torkan’s Vale! The Bat
Feeders will be on the way, and I don’t trust those damn Sardalings
not to sell out their kin to avoid feeding the Bat themselves. Go
now; tell Broddi that I told him to get Ashart to Torkan’s Vale.”
Ivartha, Vastyr and Camille remain behind in Dangerford.
Janara will accompany the PCs if she is playing with the heart of
one of the male PCs.

ESCAPE FROM RED COW FORT
Run You Fools, Run

There has been little debate in Broddi’s hall — the ring is
unanimous for once — Ashart Dusk-Eater must be escorted to
safety in Torkan’s Vale. Farandar Orendalsson is already donning
his mail, and his back-boy has fetched his spear and shield. “No

Geo’s Creek Inn

1619

69

one wants to cross Stagland in winter,” he tells the PCs, “but I
have need of stout hearts to save our Wind Lord.”
As he speaks the door bursts open, Kernalda Other-Ways
enters the hall. “The Bat Feeders are here,” she shouts. “Ortossi
tried to delay them at the gate, but they pushed on to the
citadel. They are meeting with Phargentes right now, and he has
summoned his Dogeaters.”
Broddi turns to Farandar and the PCs: “Run, get Ashart out
of here. I’ll not have our priest become food for that demon!
Run, now!”
Kullina the Fat approaches one of the PCs, perhaps an
Ernaldan, a rebel sympathizer, or best of all both and hands her
an embroidered sack, still warm and smelling of freshly baked
bread. “This is Splendorbread, from Kesta’s oven,” she says, “it
helps to endure the trail, wounds, or loss, and those who eat
it will be restored.” Treat this as giving the PC use of the clan’s
Magic Community Resource for healing only. If the PC fails
in a contest when using Splendorbread, they have exhausted
their supply.
Hide and Seek

Farandar Orendalsson leads the PCs through the bothies of Red
Cow Fort. Every few steps he raises his hand for them to stop,
and they all check over their shoulders to make sure they are
not being followed. The Bat Feeders are in Red Cow Fort —
searching for their quarry: Ashart Dusk-Eater.
Farandar leads the PCs into the bothy where Ashart is hiding,
along with his wife, Hinalda the Enduring. Gringle HarvestKing is there as well — both he and Ashart look out of breath,
and underdressed for the cold of winter. Aethelric the Girl, your
guide into Torkan’s Vale, lounges on a bench, idly playing with
his spear, seemingly untroubled by events.
Everyone knows that any door-to-door search will soon find
Ashart here. The group debates the best way to escape from Red
Cow Fort and get to Torkan’s Vale.
• Ashart Dusk-Eater: Ashart might be a portly figure, but
he is still a Wind Lord and capable of putting up a good
account of himself. He suggests that they use the Cliff, as no
one will expect it. He knows he could not fly everyone out
of the fort from there, but he should be able to cushion their
landing so that they could all jump into the water below.
• Farandar Orendalsson: is all for fighting their way out
through the gates: “Head out! It’s what they will least expect.”
• Gringle Harvest-King: is aware of the tunnels under Red
Cow Fort, and one that leads to the far side of the Heort
Creek, from the Stealing the Giant’s Cows heroquest. He
knows they could be a good way to escape, but he is afraid of
being followed by the Empire revealing the tunnels’ secret.
• Aethelric the Girl: asks pragmatic questions. “Where will
the escapees get cold weather clothing — there is snow and
ice on the ground outside? Should they take horses from
the chieftain’s stables before fleeing? What about supplies
of food?”
Allow the PCs time to enter the debate and come up with
suggestions on how to escape. Allow time for everyone to speak,

70

but before the discussion drags, interrupt the scene with a loud
knock at the door.
“Open up in the name of Commander Phargentes and the
Red Goddess!”
Aethelric gets to his feet, and Farandar draws his axe. There
is a heavy crunch against the door as the soldiers outside begin
trying to barge their way in. Gringle begins throwing the bedding
off the sleeping platform to reveal a trapdoor: “Down here there
is an escape tunnel; it’s why we use this place.”
Farandar looks grimly at the door, which is splintering under
renewed assault. “Some of us will need to give these soldiers a
bloody nose, so that we have time to get into the tunnel. Who is
with me?” He turns to Aethelric, “Lead them out, we will meet
at Willandring’s forge.”
Gringle hands around wooden masks, with the faces of the
Thunder Brothers on them, for everyone. “Wear these so the
Empire will not know your faces.”
Presumably some PCs choose to join Farandar. Unless the PCs
volunteer otherwise, Aethelric leads the others into the tunnel.
Ashart goes in the middle of the group; Gringle brings up the rear.
The PCs can choose which one of the two groups they wish
to join.
Farandar’s plan is to take the rearguard of the fight, open
the door, allowing whoever is breaking the door in to spill, then
fight their way out, scattering into Red Cow Fort and leading the
pursuers away from the fleeing Ashart. In the close confines of
the bothies, he hopes to be able to evade the pursuers.
Farandar will listen to other plans from the PCs, but as the
crunch against the door begins to splinter the wood; and debate
will be short.
Farandar pulls the door open to reveal a group of Dogeaters,
commanded by Phargentes himself, accompanied by a Bat
Feeder, Lorenthuyar the Relentless, and his initiates.
Frame the contest here to be about drawing off the assault from
the bothy long enough to allow those inside to escape not just
a stand-up fight. It should be a running battle as Farandar leads
a charge straight into their surprised opponents, and barreling
through them tries to lure them into following them into the tight
maze of passages in the bothies, and then lose them.
It may be best to frame this as an Extended Contest, to
capture the ebb and flow of the situation. You should consider
this contest to have graduated goals: hold off the Lunars, and
escape from them. The PCs should decide which is more
important. If they don’t get a Major or Complete Victory, this
may let Lunars into the tunnels in hot pursuit, or have the PCs
pursued across Red Cow Fort.
Both Phargentes and Lorenthuyar should be considered Very
High resistance. Farandar will face Lorenthuyar, unless one of
the PCs chooses to face him down. One of the PCs should face
Phargentes, as he is a recurring NPC and you want to build
enmity between him and a PC.
The Consequences of Defeat should mostly be interpreted as
injuries, but PCs who get a Major Defeat risk being captured, as
they would have to be carried, and those who suffer a Complete
Defeat will be captured (see Captured)! Farandar will leave any
who fall, but the PCs can try to carry them as far as kin, in the
hope they can hide out.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 3

The plight of those who flee
through the tunnels depends on
the attempt by Farandar to lead
off pursuit. If Farandar’s diversion
draws off pursuit, then they emerge
from the storm doors of a root cellar
of a larger bothy, and can sneak to
Willandring’s Forge. If Farandar’s
diversion fails to draw them away, the
Bat Feeder’s initiates enter the bothy,
find the tunnel, and drop down
inside to pursue. They will be just
behind the fleeing PCs in the tunnel,
follow them up out, and they blow
hunting horns to raise the alarm.
If the rebels escape the Bat
Feeders, then Gringle suggests using
the secret tunnels under the fort. He knows of a route through
the tunnels which emerges on the far side of the Heort Creek.
If the rebels don’t lose the Bat Feeders, they can still meet here,
but Lunar forces will be in hot pursuit. The most likely option
is to storm the front gate, or go over the cliff, but make the PCs
key to the choice.
If the PCs fly over the cliff, the Bat Feeder and his initiates may
surprise them when they sprout bat wings and fly to attack them.
If the rebels don’t get any breathing room, they may struggle
to gather supplies of food or warm clothing.
If the PCs don’t evade pursuit in the bothies, Lunar pursuit
once they are out of the fort will be swift. If they do manage to
evade pursuit, the Feeders and Dogeaters will resume the search
for them, but only once they have left Red Cow Fort, giving
them a head start.

STAGLAND
Remember it is Dark Season, so snow and ice cover the ground
outside the fort, it is bitterly cold, particularly at night, and there
is no food to be had by foraging. Travel in the snow is difficult,
needing snowshoes, or skating down the frozen Heort Creek.
Without a fire at night, the risk from exposure could cause frostbite
or death; with a fire the risk of detection by pursuers is heightened.
Farandar, Aethelric, Gringle and Ashart all suggest traveling
by day, and, if they can throw off pursuit, sheltering with kin
at night whilst traveling down the Heort Creek, before heading
into Stagland. Gringle and Ashart suggest hiding out with kin
until pursuit passes, but Farandar and Aethelric are keen to
keep moving.
Ashart suggests they may need to set up an ambush for any
pursuers, instead of just waiting for them.
Pursuit

Make the pursuit freeform: trying to get supplies from frightened
kin, disguising the trail, ambushing pursuers, or even being
ambushed by Dogeaters and Bat Feeders.
It is about 10 miles south to Torkan’s Vale, along the Heort
Creek, and then 10 miles into Torkan’s Vale to the Still Lake
where Orstalor is in hiding. Aethelric and Farandar both know
the route to the Still Lake.

Red Cow villages lie along the Heort Creek, which has frozen
over. These folk are kin and should help the PCs, but they are
also frightened by any talk of pursuing soldiers and the risks of
hiding Ashart Dusk-Eater; they are very aware that they and their
families could be crucified or fed to the Bat for collaborating
with the rebels.
Beyond the Red Cow villages, Stagland is hunting land,
disputed with the Telmori. In winter, the Telmori are holed up,
so encounters with the wolfmen are unlikely. The main enemy,
other than the pursuing Lunars is the cold and wet.
Betrayal

If the PCs shelter in a Sardaling stead, they may be betrayed.
For example, the PCs might hide in Tarkalus Bigger-Boat’s stead.
If he becomes aware of pursuit, he will sneak out of his hall at
night, to try and find and alert the pursuers. It is possible that a
PC sees him leave.
Tarkalus heads upriver, skating along the Heort Creek until
he finds the Lunar camp. Entering the camp, he tells the guard
on watch, “I know where you can find Ashart Dusk-Eater.”
Tarkalus will return to the stead just before dawn, hoping no
one noticed his absence. Again, it is possible that a PC sees him
arrive, which would alert them to the impending attack.
At dawn, the Lunars assault the stead. Tarkalus has left it
unbarred. Roused from sleep by shouts, the PCs have to scrabble
for weapons, with no time to don armor, and fight their way out.
Again, they will not have time to gather supplies or protective gear
for the journey, and will have to struggle through the wilderness.
Exposure

Surviving the wilderness is a contest. You might want to run it
as an Extended Contest, but intersperse other scenes between the
rounds, as a PC learns to cope with the wilderness in winter or
suffers injury from the cold. PCs who have completed their contest
against exposure can assist others with their struggle if needed.
Campfire

Make time to have a ‘campfire’ session to allow PCs and NPCs
to interact. Build relationships between the PCs and NPCs. Use
this opportunity to make the NPCs three-dimensional.

1619

71

TORKAN’S VALE
The Still Lake

Orstalor and the Mudhens are in hiding on one of the crannogs
on Still Lake. If the PCs are still being pursued at this point,
arrange a dramatic intervention with the Mudhens arriving to
drive off their pursuers. The Mudhens outnumber the small
pursuing force, so they seem safe, for now.
Orstalor will perform the Greeting and welcome the PCs into
his hideout. It is winter, but the Mudhens hall on the crannog is
proof against wind and water and has a warm fire. The Mudhens
will hand around porridge and heated wine to warm their visitors.
It may take a moment or two for the PCs to realize there are
other guests here. An old man with long white hair and beard,
wrapped in bear furs, sits near the fire. A middle aged man, who
may be his son, sits beside him. Both are well dressed, but in a
strange combination of buckskins and fine city linens — also
note that they wear odd bone and flint necklaces.
Aethelric reaches for his spear and shouts out, “Black-Paws!
Telmori!” He looks ready to stab them both.
Ask the PCs what they want to do. Make it clear there are
Telmori here, but strangely dressed. Can the PCs overcome
their Hate Telmori (which will be at the level of their Red Cow
Clan keyword)? Do they draw weapons? Do they try to restrain
Aethelric?
Ashart and Farandar step forward. “Stop!” Ashart cries,
“These Telmori are loyal to Sartar.” Farandar tries to push down
the PCs blades saying, “These men are friends.”
How do the PCs feel, with Red Cow ring members and
priests, defending their most hated enemy?
The Mudhens move to interpose themselves. “The obligations
of hospitality lie upon you, and upon me, or you will be oath
breakers and cursed by Orlanth!” cries Orstalor. “These men are
loyal to the House of Sartar, and guests in my hall.”
As tempers calm the old man speaks up.
“I am Kostajor Wolf-Champion. I am the son of Ostling
Four-wolf, whom you called ‘King of the Telmori,’ and of
Onelisin Cat-Witch the granddaughter of Sartar. My five sons
are the Helkos Brothers.
“I formed part of the Telmori bodyguard to Prince Jarolar
Longstride of Sartar. I saved Jarolar’s son, Prince Jarosar Longarrow,
from the disastrous defeat at Dwarf Run. I was on Tarkalor
Trollkiller’s ring, during his war with the Kitori and the struggle
against the Red Moon in Tarsh. I saved Tarkalor’s son Terasarin
at Grizzly Peak. Even in my old age, Prince Terasarin sought my
counsel. I was too old then to fight with the Household of Death,
but I sheltered Kallyr Starbrow when she fled Lunar assassins.”
Give the players a moment to take in they are in the presence
of a hero, whose history is that of their kingdom.
Aethelric refuses to remain ‘around the fire’ with a Telmori,
going to sit at the far end of the hall. He turns to the PCs and
says, “I hope you will join me, or are you wolf lovers too?”
Ask the players if any of the PCs join Aethelric. If they do,
they will have his loyalty for showing their mettle in this hour; if
they do not, he will identify them as wolf-friends to key Telmorihating NPCs such as Queen Ivartha, Borngold Many-Brothers,
and Vastyr Bloody-Shirt. Those NPCs will react with disfavor

72

toward the PCs if they seek their aid in future; treat this as -6
injury to their relationships with them.
Those who stay can enjoy the stories of the old man, as he tells
tales of the Princes of old, and the struggles in the Troll Woods
and in Tarsh. Farandar, Orstalor, and Ashart will count the PCs
as rebel friends afterwards; treat this as a Benefit of Victory of +3
to relationships with these NPCs.
Kostajor is a kindly old man, patient with the PCs, and
happy to tell stories of the past. He is obviously educated and
not some ‘savage’ as the players might conceive most Telmori to
be. Black-Paws, his son, is much more hesitant around the PCs,
and protective of his father.
Make it clear that Kostajor’s lineage and the Telmori Royal
Guard remain loyal to the House of Sartar. Explain that Kostajor’s
alliance with Kallyr is part of that, as was their attack on the
Maboder, who had betrayed the kingdom during the invasion.
You should also reveal Kallyr fought alongside the Telmori in
that struggle. For those who still doubt the rebels, but chose to
listen to the old man, these revelations may be challenging. Some
may even realize that Kostajor and Black-Paws are heirs to the
throne! Both brush this off, if it is mentioned, but this news may
also disquiet some PCs.
Finally, make it clear that Ashart and Farandar have a good
relationship with the Telmori and seem friendly to Kostajor.
Again this may be challenging for the PCs.
Leaving the Still Lake

Orstalor and Ashart take counsel together on the edge of the
crannog and return looking grim. “The Empire may decide to
come looking for us in force,” Orstalor tells the PCs. “These
crannogs provide protection against patrols, but once discovered,
we like to leave for a while.”
“We have decided to split into two groups,” Ashart says.
“The Mudhens, led by Orstalor, are going to take the fight to
the Empire along the Creek, and try to free those who have been
captured to feed the Crimson Bat — I am not the only one at
risk here. Another group, led by Black-Paws, will head into the
Wolf Hills and hide out at his den there, until this passes over.
Orstalor will send word when we can return to Red Cow Fort.”
Aethelric and those PCs who have shown hostility towards
the Telmori should go with Orstalor. Others can choose, though
some should guard Ashart, as Broddi instructed.

THE WOLF HILLS
For those PCs who enter the Wolf Hills, make it clear they are
journeying into territory they have always known to be forbidden
and hostile. Tales of clanfolk captured and skinned alive should
be present in their minds when they think about these hills.
Gringle Harvest-King leaves the party here — heading back
to Red Cow Fort to inform Broddi of Ashart’s safety. He tells the
PCs to follow Broddi’s orders — stay with Ashart and help to
keep him safe.
The Wolf Hills are quiet in winter. Most of the Telmori
are in the deep caves of the hills, where their winter stores are,
hibernating along with Grandmother Earth. Kostajor and BlackPaws keep the PCs on a tight leash, discouraging them from
wandering off. They may pass long-barrows, and Kostajor will

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 3

tell the PCs they contain the bodies of the ancestors but that
only Tergavi, the shamans, may enter them. “These places are
forbidden, do you understand?”
Eventually they blindfold the PCs. “This last journey you
must make unsighted, as it is the location of our winter den,”
Kostajor tells them. Ashart and Farandar remain un-blindfolded
and can guide them. PCs who cheat may be caught — and
Kostajor will simply cast them adrift, to survive on their own.
They lead the PCs to a cave where their pack lives.
This is their winter den, a deep cave extending deep
underground where it is warm in spite of the winter outside. The
PCs are not permitted to push too far into the cave — where the
mothers and children are — but instead are given space near the
cave entrance where a fire is kept burning by a plentiful supply
of wood.
Kostajor extends his hospitality to the PCs — he will protect
them, provide a place by the fire, and food and water, provided
they promise not to injure the Telmori whilst they are here.
Everyone knows the gods protect oaths of hospitality.
Black-Paws and Kostajor are regular visitors.
Kostajor talks often of the past. He only becomes upset when
talking of his wolf brother. He will not mention that Jomes
Hostralos kills him — nor that he wears his skin — but Ashart
will tell the PCs in confidence to avoid awkward questions.
Black-Paws talks often of his own son Ostling, who is a
hostage in Queen Ivartha’s household. Black-Paws is proud that
his son keeps Sartar’s peace with his presence, but worries about
Ostling given Queen Ivartha’s hatred of the Telmori.
Wolf Running

The PCs spend at least one Wildday in the cave before the rebels
send them the news that the Bat has passed.
When Wildday comes Kostajor will guide the PCs into a
side-chamber of the cave, away from the main thoroughfares.
“Tonight, Talor’s Curse means we all must take our wolf form.
Not all of the people, especially the young and hotheaded, can
calm their savage beast hearts when the wolf-time is upon them.
Remain here and you will be safe, for I will guard your cave. I am
too old now to run in the snowy woods, but I am strong enough
to keep you secure.”
The PCs are unlikely to witness the Telmori transformation.
If someone sneaks off to catch a glimpse feel free to describe
the cracking bones, stretched jaws, and sprouting fur of man
becoming wolf, but also have them succeed at a contest to avoid
being detected by the wolves and chased by angry young Telmori,
who desire only to tear the interloper of their rites to pieces.
Amidst howls from werewolves and wolves, an old wolf with
gray and white fur enters. He lies in front of the entrance to the
PCs’ cave. Occasionally another group of wolves approaches
the PCs’ cave, their eyes shining in the firelight. The old wolf
rises to his feet and growls, and the other wolves slink back into
the darkness.
One wolf is different. This wolf sniffs along the ground, and
when it raises its head, the PCs see it has empty sockets where
its eyes should be. Its shadow moves unnervingly in the firelight,
until the PCs realize it is not mirroring the actions of the blind
wolf — but moving quite independently.

The old wolf circles the newcomer; both snarl at each other,
and nip at each other’s heels. Eventually the old wolf lands a bite
on the blind wolf ’s rump, and he trots off.
Just before sunset the next day, the old wolf disappears. Later,
Kostajor returns to the PCs’ cave accompanied by Black-Paws.
The old man seems tired and worn out, as though last night
drained him.
If anyone asks who the blind wolf was, Kostajor says,
“That was Jogar Sog, my great-nephew. He has little time for
Heortlings, and does not like your presence here in this cave. But
he respects my authority, for now.”
Free at Last

If none of the PCs are with Orstalor let them know that the
Crimson Bat has moved on, have Black-Paws tell them he
has received word it is safe for them to return home. They are
blindfolded and taken by the Telmori to a rendezvous at the
Finger with Kullina the Fat and Kernalda Other-Ways. Both
Kullina and Kernalda are courteous to Black-Paws, and gift him
with a mule laden with honey and bacon in thanks for looking
after Ashart and the PCs.

AMBUSH AT CINSIN BRIDGE
Orstalor and the Mudhens operate along the Creek and its
tributaries, where they are strong enough to evade the Empire.
Whilst the Bat is in Dangerford and when it heads south along
the Boranini River to Jonstown and the Lorthing River to Fox
Hollow, Orstalor and the Mudhens harry the Bat Feeders and
the Lunar regiments in the Jonstown area assigned to aid them
(see Sartar Companion, page 12 for a full list).
White Crow Inn

In a bold attempt to free victims captured by the Feeders,
Orstalor decides to strike when the Crimson Bat travels down
the King’s Road to Jonstown. This journey passes down along the
Lorthing River, crossing it at Cinsin Bridge.
Orstalor’s plan involves infiltrating the Frithan village before
the Bat arrives, disguised as an Issaries caravan taking goods from
Jonstown back up to Dangerford and Alda-Chur. He plans to
wait at the White Crow Inn, until the Crimson Bat reaches the
area and free the sacrifices from the Lunar baggage train when
the Lunar column is divided and crossing the bridge. Then he
plans on escaping by getting the Lorthing River to raise a mist
that conceals his band.
Orstalor has some mules that Kullina uses to send him supplies,
and most of his men can pose as caravan guards. If a PC is suitable,
he may ask them to impersonate merchants; otherwise some of the
Mudhens take that role and the PCs can pose as caravan guards, or
even entertainers making their way north.
Refugees

The King’s Road is jumbled as people flee the advance of the
Crimson Bat. Most are scared and panicked Dolutha and Frithan
clan folk, clutching a few treasured possessions, hoping to return
for the rest once the Bat has gone.
Amidst the panic, the flaw in Orstalor’s plan becomes clear: the
refugees might recognize the PCs or the rebels, and some might

1619

73

turn them over to the Bat Feeders to save their own lives. Have one
of the PCs approached by a Frithan refugee and his family. “Aren’t
you so-and-so’s boy he asks? She’s my cousin on my father’s side.
Didn’t I see you at that wedding, three years ago?”
Perhaps one of the PCs overhears one refugee whisper to
another: “The Mudhens are here! They’ll help us; everything will
be all right now Orstalor is here.”
The PCs might try to encourage the refugees to keep quiet,
and even weed out those who might betray them. Treat it as a
contest that gives a Plot Augment to attempts to evade discovery
by the Lunars.
When riders of the Arrowstone Cavalry accompanied by a Bat
Feeder and his initiates enters the White Crow Inn, ahead of the
Bat, they are looking for fleeing rebels, not a group whose aim
is to head towards the Bat, which may give the PCs deception a
chance. Before the assembled inn the Bat Feeder declares: “Those
who worship the steed of the Red Goddess, the Crimson Bat,
will be chosen last as its food. You can secure your own safety by
providing a rebel as food. Join us!”
If the PCs did not secure a Complete Victory earlier, one or
two eyes glance towards them.
The PCs need to fool the Bat Feeder when he interviews the
refugees looking for rebels. Failure will result in drawn swords as
the Bat Feeder and the Arrowstone Cavalry attempt to apprehend
the rebels (perhaps after a distant cousin has fingered them).
If Orstalor’s guerrillas are exposed, they will find it too hard
to fight their way up the crowded road through the advancing
Lunar columns to reach the victims — so Orstalor will call a
retreat and use the Lorthing River to create a mist to help them
escape. The PCs might object, wanting to use the mist to rescue
the victims. Convincing Orstalor is a contest; if the PCs win give
them their level of Defeat in the contest with the Bat Feeders as

74

a penalty to attempts to free the victims, representing the alert
spreading through the Lunar ranks.
The first warning the PCs get of the Crimson Bats approach
is flocks of birds flying south overhead, obviously agitated.
Animals follow: deer, cattle, pigs, sheep, and cats moving south,
at times in a stampede. Some people may be trampled or gored
as the animals flee. Something is obviously badly spooking the
animals, and coming south.
If the PCs remain, they witness the Crimson Bat flying down
the road towards and over Cinsin Bridge. Make them check to
stand their ground; a number of the Mudhens flee in terror at
this point. The beat of the Bat’s wings forces most people to the
ground, hanging on to shelter to avoid being knocked down.
Attempts to injure the Crimson Bat are foolish, with a +W5 on
the base resistance. PCs who try such foolishness might dissolve
in a cloud of acid, corrupted by a spray of hot burning blood
from an eye, or be wrapped by a tentacle and dragged up into
the Bat’s mouth.
The Empire has no need to protect the Crimson Bat; it is
beyond the threat posed by mere mortals.
Victims

The victims walk toward the back of the train, hands tied behind
their back, in a coffle. Their guards are lay members of the Crimson
Bat cult whose own personal safety relies upon ensuring these
victims do not escape. Most of the guards are outlaws: murderers,
thieves, and bandits turned over by the authorities in Alda-Chur,
Herongreen, and Dangerford. The Bat Feeders picked them out
for this role, knowing such criminals are self-interested and thus
highly motivated to ensure the prisoners don’t escape.
Brenessa the Sow leads the guards. In other set of circumstances
she might have been part of the coffle herself. Harvar Ironfist’s

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 3

men rounded her up, and she and some of her former gang have
been doing their best to stay alive. Most of the Indigo Gang are
slowly going mad in the constant presence of the Crimson Bat
— all have developed nervous ticks, some stare into the distance.
Freeing the victims probably means killing or scaring off most
of the guards. The guards know they will die in their charges’
place — and so are a Very High resistance.
Cunning players might try to turn the guards to the rebels
cause, and get them to flee with the victims under cover of
Orstalor’s mist. That is possible, but the guards are so frightened
by the Crimson Bat that it is a Very High resistance.
If there is a fight, soldiers from the column will head toward
the area, but are slowed by pushing through the refugees. If the
PCs overpower the guards, they will be able to see the soldiers
from the Mirinite Swords shoving their way through the crowds
to reach them. And then the Crimson Bat turns, and with an
ear splitting scream, begins to flap toward Orstalor and the PCs.
Orstalor screams at everyone to run as mist begins bubbling
forth from the Lorthing River.
Treat this as an Arduous Auto-Success. The PCs will see a
great shadow passing overhead in the mist, and hear screams as
the shadow descends and plucks up another victim. But they
escape up the Lorthing River.
Orstalor finds them, exhausted by the side of the river, after
danger has passed and urges them on to Red Cow Fort.
Maboder Bandit: Brenessa the Bandit Queen exj

Brenessa the Sow was five when her mother hid her within
the earth and saved her from the Telmori who killed her kin.
Destitute and alone her mother became a slave to Jomes to
survive and Brenessa with her.
Brenessa’s life at the steadfast was brutal. She was beaten for
clumsiness and mistakes and subject to the unwanted attentions
of the men. Brenessa learned to hate the people of Wulfsland
under their lash.
Brenessa escaped from slavery and fled to Alone. Life there
was little better. Forced into prostitution to earn enough to eat,
Brenessa still felt herself to be a slave. She fled to the Indigo Hills,
where the outlaws hid.
Brenessa was drawn by love to Baranwulf One-Ear, a bandit.
For her he had all the romance of Orlanth the Outlaw come to
free Ernalda. When she found him in the mountains, she became
his wife and soon became second-in-command of his gang.
When Baranwulf died she took his place. The Indigo Gang
hid in the Indigo Mountains, dodging trolls, but keeping on
good terms with the Torkani. They preyed on the caravans
winding their way across the Donalf Flats, taking goods and coin
and selling survivors into slavery at Pimper’s Block.
Maboder Bandit: Brenessa the Bandit Queen exj
Faction: Daughters of Mabodh
Age: 23
Keywords: Bandit
Magic: Initiate of Ernalda e
Look: Short, long dark hair

EPILOGUE
With the Bat passing south to Jonstown and Fox Hollow, the
immediate danger passes for the Red Cow. Ashart returns to
hiding. The PCs most probably become involved in the clan’s
struggle against the Chaos flood sweeping down from Snakepipe
Hollow, following the Crimson Bat.
Gringle’s End

Through pillow-talk with Vastyr Bloody-Shirt, Sureela FarTraveled learns the identity of those who helped save Ashart
Dusk-Eater. Learning that Gringle Harvest-King and his wife,
Orsta Trades-With-Trolls have hidden Ashart for years, she
decides to make an example of them. She has Phargentes arrest
them, and take them to the citadel for questioning. After torture,
when the pair reveal names of rebel contacts, she has them
crucified outside the gates of Red Cow Fort with a warning read
aloud that, “Those who harbor enemies of the Red Goddess, will
join them in their fate.”
At some point afterwards, Sureela Far-Traveled will approach
one of the PCs in disguise. Most likely whomever Vastyr would
have identified as their leader. She will attempt to seduce them, so
that as with Vastyr she can begin to pump them for information
on the rebellion and its plans.
Resolution of this situation is left to the Game Master.

PLAY OF THE GAME
The Missing is a kick-starter episode for understanding the Red
Cow clan. Flight from the Bat is a kick-starter for the players
understanding the tribe and the Red Cow’s neighbors. As in
that episode, include your own scenes so that you can use it to
introduce NPCs from outside the Red Cow who you feel may
be significant given the Narrative Hooks that the players created.
The PCs might flee from the Crimson Bat, failing a contest
to stand against Chaos. There is no shame in this; everyone
knows that only the Uroxi are strong enough to confront Chaos
without fear.
The PCs might try to save Hallarax in Dangerford. Ivartha
and Vastyr try to warn them off — the numbers of Lunar troops,
the presence of the Crimson Bat itself — but the PCs may persist.
Allow them to try, but don’t be afraid to use High and Very High
resistances as the PCs try to free prisoners from the Lunar camp.
Such an attempt might be noted in any future election.
If the PCs do free Hallarax, their best option is to take him to
Red Cow Fort and from there into hiding in Torkan’s Vale along
with Ashart.
PCs face becoming Bat Food if captured. The most likely
reason a PC ends up at risk is because they have suffered a Major
or Complete Defeat in a contest with the Dogeaters and Bat
Feeders. Carrying a wounded PC will slow the group’s attempts
to escape — and a Game Master should apply a penalty of -6 to
those who need to help. For that reason, Farandar is keen to leave
the fallen behind. Ashart is less willing to leave a fallen companion
behind, and will try to get them to kin, who he hopes can shelter
or hide them. This may lead to a heated debate amongst the group.
The wounded have to escape and evade, then persuade kin
to hide them. Escape and evasion for any wounded person

1619

75

probably involves crawling, or hobbling using a stick to a hiding
place, remaining concealed until pursuit passes, and then trying
to reach the safety of kin. That is a Low resistance in Red Cow
Fort, Moderate along the Heort Creek, and High in Stagland.
In addition, not all kin will be willing to shelter someone who
is wounded and on the run from the Empire. Taking in a rebel
is a crime that can get you and your family crucified. If the
Dogeaters and Bat Feeders come calling, and the PC cannot
be hidden from them, then there is as much danger to those
sheltering the PC as the PC. In this case, it is likely they are
dragged off to become Bat Food too.
If taken, try to give the PC a chance to escape by their
own efforts. Most likely they will be taken to Red Cow Fort,
to await other prisoners, then escorted to Dangerford, bound
and in chains. Be sympathetic to reasonable plans. If they can’t,
use Orstalor or Venharl and the Storm Rams to rescue them;
the former is an especially good option if other PCs have met
Orstalor and joined his raiding up and down the Creek against
the Crimson Bat’s servants.
It is possible that Phargentes, the garrison commander, dies
hunting the PCs during this session. If the PCs defeat him, it is
better to leave him wounded to return and seek revenge than kill
him off, but if a PC finishes him off, you will need to generate a
replacement. Illaro Broken-Back will swear an oath to track down
Phargentes’ killer and crucify him on the citadel of Red Cow Fort.
It is possible that the PCs try to kill Jogar Sog in the Wolf
Hills. This is Nearly Impossible without magic or Rune Metals
to hurt him in werewolf form, Very High with them. Jogar’s
fetch will also act in the fight, and has a Very High resistance
as well. Kostajor will not defend anyone who gives up the
protection of his hospitality to fight with Jogar. As Jogar is the
one who violates Kostajor’s hospitality — the PC breaks no
oath in tackling Jogar.
If Jogar is defeated, then most likely he acquires a new injury
that he will seek vengeance for, and perhaps a new affliction he
has to rely on the spirits to counter. If the PCs succeed in killing
Jogar, a Complete Victory, you have two options for events in
1620. The first is to have Black-Paws lead the Telmori uprising,
perhaps finally pushed too far by Heortlings who stretch the
meaning of Sartar’s treaties and break oaths of hospitality when
given shelter from their enemies. The second is to decide that
the PCs’ action in the cave means that there will be no Telmori
uprising. It was a Complete Victory after all. At that point, let
the dice fall as they have and decide on new episodes for 1620
with the Telmori threat eliminated. Perhaps the Maboder rebels
begin causing trouble for Jomes instead…
One scene not considered here, is that the Bat Feeders and
Dogeaters get close enough to the PCs in the Wolf Hills that
the Telmori decide to ambush them, and ask the PCs to help.
Judge such additional scenes by pacing, the PCs might have had
enough fighting by now, but you do get to create bonds between
Telmori fighters and the PCs, which become telling in 1620.
If Brenessa survives the encounter with the PCs, then she
might recur as an NPC as might the Indigo Gang. Outlaws
and bandits, reforming the Maboder clan by eliminating Jomes
might give them the chance to ‘come in from the cold’ in a
new Sartar.

76

Some players might object to Gringle’s death, being given no
chance to save him. Push those players with questions “You were
wearing masks, who knew who you were?” Make it clear that
Gringle’s death introduces a new mystery.
When Sureela appears, you might find it easiest to be
upfront that the Lunar spy who betrayed Gringle is seducing
them, and let the dice decide whether or not the PC betrays his
kin, unwittingly.

THE HORROR
IN THE DARK
BEGIN WITH
It is Dark Season. Snow lies on the ground outside the stead,
work is over for winter, and everyone huddles around the hearth
to tell stories. Talk still centers on the horror of the Crimson Bat
visiting Jonstown, Dangerford, and Fox Hollow.
It is a Brightnight when the sky is free of clouds, the stars
shine bright, and it is unbelievably cold. You need to wear fur
just to step out of doors without freezing to death. When you
inhale you can hear your nostril hairs crack as they freeze in the
cold air. At least there is no wind.
The PCs are visiting the village of one of the Rivals. Pick
whichever one is appropriate for your game. It is a surprise when
Ortossi arrives, accompanied by a patrol. Depending on where
the Rival’s village is they have most likely come by skate down
the frozen surface of the Heort or Danda. On land they use
snowshoes. Stripping off their heavy wolf furs, they quench their
thirst with ale and warm themselves by the fire. All look tired.
Ortossi tells the villagers to “bar your doors tonight.” He goes on
to tell them that, “A warped and twisted Chaotic horror struck
last night, killing three, breaking their necks before ripping open
their throats and drinking their blood. He then murdered two
women, eviscerating them and feasting on their entrails.”
Broddi has sent to the tribe for aid, in the meantime Ortossi
advises that the “militia should gather, and everyone should
cluster together in a couple of the longhouses. Use your horns to
summon help.” Then he and his companions swaddle themselves
in their furs, strap on their skates, and head down river.

CAST
Broddi Strong-Kin, Ortossi Ketilsson, Jaranil the Thunder,
Kangharl Black-Brow

BRIGHTNIGHT STORM
This is not a storm, but a night with no wind or clouds,
a rare winter occurrence in Dragon Pass. As its name
implies the night sky is visible clearly overhead. It is
almost unbelievably cold.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 3

FILBAR THE THUNDERER ot?

ORENDAL FILBARSSON oj?

Filbar is a tall man with craggy features weathered by the wind and
sun. He is wiry and gravel-voiced. His toughness and endurance
are legendary amongst the Red Cow herdsmen. People think of
him as most at home in the wilderness. He is absent for long
periods, not climbing crags or cliffs but hunting new victims. They
disregard his taciturn nature as ‘not a people person,’ but in fact,
Filbar believes he is less likely to slip up, the less he says.
Filbar is ruthless with no compassion for the weak. He rules
his family through physical domination, backing his sons and
wife down in any disagreement and taking his fists to them if
he needs to. The first ogre born for a generation he has had to
work hard to survive for so long. He is conscious that Orlevor’s
accident stems from his decision, and threatens them all. He
seeks to put that mistake right.

The youngest of the Filbarssons’ boys, Orendal chafes at the
restrictions of his home and is desperate to leave. He wants to
go to Jonstown and sign on for one of the mercenary companies.
He dreams of travel, adventure, and dominating the ‘animals.’
Good looking, he is popular with the Blueberry girls and
delights in his ability to have anyone he wants, or take those who
refuse him. Charismatic, despite his bullying the other young
men look to him for leadership.
Orendal Filbarsson oj?
Bloodline: Tormakting
Faction: His Family
Age: 20
Keywords: Herder, Ogre

Filbar the Thunderer ot?

Magic: Initiate of Cacodemon ?

Bloodline: Tormakting

Look: Tall, good-looking, athletic build

Faction: His Family
Age: 49

BRASTALA OLINARASDOTTIR et?

Keywords: God-Talker, Herder, Ogre

The youngest of the Filbarssons, Brastala is a beauty by any
standards. Young men from the Blueberry, Dolutha, and Wulfsland
all want to seduce her. She has willingly been with many, knowing
her beauty is as much a weapon as her physical strength. Many
would do her bidding without question, enthralled to her beauty.
The Women’s Circle thinks she will make a good match for the
clan, but complain Filbar seems hesitant to let her go.
She is horrified by her brother’s transformation — no matter
how holy — and thinks it will bring trouble to the family. She
despises her parents for not thinking ahead; she believes herself
so much smarter than them. She would like Orendal to take her
away with him when he leaves — and join a mercenary company.
She hopes to initiate into the cult of Humakt.

Magic: Devotee of Cacodemon ?
Look: Handsome, gravelly voice, pursed lips,
wrinkled and craggy skin

ORLINARA HORSE-TRADER e?j
A beautiful woman with an athletic build; many were surprised
when Orlinara left her home with the Orlmarthing clan to
journey to the Red Cow but pleased she seemed such a good
match for Filbar. Locals still tell tales of the time Orlinara rescued a pregnant ewe, carrying it over her shoulders, whilst three
seasons pregnant herself. She keeps to the stead and does not
spend time much time socializing; her neighbors are saddened
by this and not suspicious.
Orlinara met Filbar at the Cacodemon temple in Snake Pipe
Hollow, where they still travel for the Holy Day — on the excuse
they are visiting her family in Colymar lands. No one has ever
bothered to check her story.
She defers to Filbar because he is stronger and older but
she dominates and bullies her children; her instinct is to boss
the weak around — an instinct she tries to hide when with the
‘animals’ from nearby steads.
Orlinara Horse-Trader e?j
Bloodline: Tormakting
Faction: Her Family
Age: 42
Keywords: Herder, Ogre
Magic: Initiate of Cacodemon ?
Look: Long dark hair, tall and well-muscled,
large entrancing eyes, soft voice

Brastala Olinarasdottir et?
Bloodline: Tormakting
Faction: Her Family
Age: 16
Keywords: Herder, Ogre
Magic: Lay Member of Cacodemon ?
Look: Tall with dark hair, pretty face, with piercing
eyes and full lips

THE HORROR: ORLEVOR THE HANDSOME (t?o)
Orlevor was once a handsome young man, loved by many a
young girl of the Blueberry clan, and admired by many a boy in
the Red Cow. Although something of a bully to those who were
weak or fearful, Orlevor was popular amongst the other young
herders during the summer months when the animals moved to
the summer grazing around Far Shielings.
Orlevor was transformed by the ceremony, and is turning
into a fiend of Cacodemon. He stands some twelve feet tall, with
huge bat-like wings that at full extent have a wingspan of twenty
feet. His skin is thorny and turning soot black in patches. His

1619

77

feet and hands have turned into savage claws, and he is growing
a serpentine tail. His face is lengthening into a snout filled with
needle sharp teeth; his hair falling out in clumps and his ears
becoming bat-like. He reeks of carrion and sulfur.
Orlevor is smart and cunning, not some idiot monster.
Cleverer than most humans, his first thought following the
transformation was “I have been so stupid.” His feelings of
hunger and rage are overwhelming at this stage of his transition
and he reacts irrationally. He needs to feed regularly to sustain
the transformation his body is undergoing. He thinks less and
less of himself as a person and increasingly as a fiend.
The Horror: Orlevor the Handsome (t?o)
Bloodline: Tormakting
Faction: Himself
Age: 22
Keywords: Fiend
Magic: Devotee of Cacodemon ?
Legendary Abilities: Bite, Claw, Rake with Claws,
Thorny Skin

SITUATION
A family of ogres lives in secret amongst the Red Cow clan.
Filbar the Thunderer, his wife Olinara Horse-Trader, their two
sons Orlevor the Handsome and Orendal Filbarsson, and their
daughter Brastala Olinarasdottir live at Far Shielings. They are
quiet and keep to themselves, as do most people who live here.
Filbar herds sheep during the summer months, helped by his two

sons. The two boys are good looking and popular with the girls.
They are often seen at Fordstone. During the winter, the Far
Shielings’ population drops to just over a dozen people, most of
whom live here because they like the isolation.
They have successfully concealed their true nature by being
careful to leave Red Cow lands and kill strangers, usually
travelers on the way to Jonstown, anyone encountered in the
Wolf Hills or Torkan’s Vale, and sometimes unfortunates on the
streets of Jonstown.
When the Crimson Bat passed through Dangerford, the family
made a pilgrimage to Jonstown where they intended to use the
Chaos demon’s presence to ensure the success of their sacrifices
to Cacodemon. The results of their ritual were more than they
expected. Orlevor the Handsome was transformed by the
ceremony. Slowly at first, but then more rapidly, he has warped
into a Chaotic horror beyond recognition and filled with base
desires and instincts. His first attacks fell on the people wintering
in Far Shielings. Now his hunger drives him further afield.
His parents fearing discovery have tried locking him in
their root cellar, but he breaks out once his hunger becomes
great enough. Filbar works to cover his tracks, and Olinara to
defray suspicion. They know they should flee, that Orlevor’s
transformation has all but doomed them but the winter is now
too fierce. They hope to be able to wait out until the thaw and
flee to Pavis. They have become desperate and will kill anyone
visiting Far Shielings who they believe might discover the truth.

ACTS, SCENES AND BEATS
DARK OF WINTER
The Horror Attacks

CACODEMON ?ot
Cacodemon is a remnant of the army of the Devil.
During the Great Darkness, some people began to follow
Cacodemon and participated in his rituals, eating man
flesh. These were the first of the ogre race, and with
other Chaos races, ruled a wide area of Genertela in the
Darkness. Trolls, aided by Waha in Prax and other heroes
elsewhere, suppressed the ogres and drove Cacodemon off.
The Cacodemon cult is all that remains of that time, and
the ogre race, whilst scattered is still intimately connected
to Cacodemon. Worship involves the sacrifice of sentient
beings to Cacodemon. The Cacodemon sends his servitors,
the fiends, to consume the offered soul. A fiend is a Chaos
demon similar to the Cacodemon in appearance, but about
twelve feet tall, with claws, large bat wings capable of
flight and a tail; sooty dirt begrimes it thorny skin and it is
accompanied by a stench of sulfur and carrion.
An ogre’s natural tendencies to devouring other humans
always reveal themselves when an ogre wanders within
five miles of a Cacodemon holy place. Cacodemon has
holy places in Snakepipe Hollow in Dragon Pass and on
Ogre Island in Pavis.

78

The horror sunders the doors to the Rival’s hall with a single
blow. The wooden doors fly into the room in huge splinters. The
shrapnel strikes down a carl, Kornos Ever-On, who falls, a large
spear of wood protruding from his chest. Cold air blasts into the
hall from outside. People scream and run for other doors.
Any encounter with a Chaotic horror frightens most people,
and the PCs need to win a contest to stand their ground (see
Sartar Companion, page 105). PCs who have no other Ability
can use either their Red Cow Clan keyword — the Red Cow have
courage as a virtue — or any divine affinity.
The horror grabs one of the cottars in the hall, Estavos NoBull, and swings him by his feet through the air, dashing his
brains out against a wall.
The monster is hungry, remorseless, and relentless, but blinded
by anger and hate. Those who flee have a good chance to escape
while the horror destroys the hall and butchers the livestock.
Standing up to the horror is a challenge. Without Chaos or
ogre-killing magic, fighting the horror is Nearly Impossible. Even
accounting for Multiple Opponent Penalties — no more than
six PCs can attack the horror at once — the PCs are likely to be
in trouble. The Rival tells the PCs to flee: “We must summon
help from a Wind Lord of Orlanth.”
Encourage the PCs to Disengage from the contest. With the
horror maddened with rage, disengagement should be Moderate
or Low resistance. Alternatively when Naming the Prize, the

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 3

The Horror Attacks

COLD WEATHER GEAR

PCs could choose only to hold the horror off long enough for
people to escape. This option has a Very High or High resistance
instead. If the PCs choose to stand and fight anyway be prepared
for some to be badly mauled or killed. Multiple Opponent
Penalties may even the odds enough to drive the horror off. You
might need Ortossi to return to drive off the horror at this point,
perhaps with Ustarna Try-Much arriving to heal the injured.

Orlanthi cold weather clothing depends on layers to trap
heat and fur to keep the wind out. Commonly Orlanthi just
wear a second tunic or skirt, or even a third. In the heart
of winter, people need a little more protection. They keep
their head warm by wearing a fur hat, conical in shape,
made from strips of bear or wolf fur stitched together and
fastened under the chin with a leather strip. A woolen
scarf protects the face. A sheepskin jerkin helps keep the
body warm, and sheepskin leggings covering the calves
and lower thighs help keep legs warm. Often the wool is
left unscoured so it keeps the wet out. In addition, winter
clothing includes mittens made of sheepskin, with the fur
on the inside, sheepskin boots, again with the fur on the
inside, and a heavy winter cloak. The best winter cloaks
are fur, made from wolf or bearskin.

Flight into the Night

Fleeing into a Brightnight has its own dangers. Away from the
warmth of the hearth, frostbite is likely within 10 minutes.
Within 15 minutes to an hour, people will begin to develop
hypothermia. Unless the PCs bought time for the evacuation, or
took precautions following Ortossi’s warning, the refugees will
be in trouble.
The rest of the village will now be alerted. The Rival will try to
organize an evacuation, but he should call upon the PCs to help
carry it out. As the Rival, talk through with the PCs the choice
between running now or holding off the horror long enough to
make their escape. Make it clear the Rival now considers the PCs
to be people to call on in a crisis. Villagers who see the horror
for the first time may break and run, fleeing ill-prepared into the
night. Many will die, stumbling ill-prepared into the dark. Some
simply lie down and die.
Gathering the militia might be enough to hold the horror
off. The Rival will propose trying to form a shield wall with the
militia to keep the horror from the refugees whilst everyone
escapes. If you have already run a Group Extended Contest in
the hall, choose a Group Simple Contest here.
Without suitable protection, the refugees’ flight to the nearest
village is Nearly Impossible. With suitable protection, it is still

High or Very High. Appropriate abilities include the Red Cow
Clan keyword — all Heortlings have experience in extreme cold
weather. Defeat indicates casualties on the march from frostbite
or hypothermia.
If the horror is Defeated, it will slope off into the night, if
Completely Defeated to die. Following the trail of blood it leaves
will lead any pursuers to Far Shielings.
If the village is abandoned to the horror, it will destroy
in frustration. Hall doors, posts, and walls will be smashed,
collapsing some roofs. Animals unable to escape will be butchered
in their stalls; many of those that flee will freeze to death in the
cold. It will be a hard winter for the folk of the village.

1619

79

Monster Hunt

If the horror was injured when it attacked, the PCs may want
to follow their defeated enemy back to its lair. The horror uses
its wings to fly away. Although the creature’s flight seems slow
and cumbersome, it can outdistance someone on foot, unless
they overcome a credibility test using magic (such as using your
Air Rune g divine affinity to fly or a Movement Rune s divine
affinity to keep up over snow). This may separate the PCs as
most likely not everyone can keep up and affecting multiple
people with such magic is Nearly Impossible. The horror retreats
home, to the Filbarssons’ stead at Far Shielings.
In an effort to distract pursuers once it reaches Far Shielings,
the horror will use its Darkness divine affinity to perform
Cacodemon’s Cloak of Darkness feat. Following it is a Very High
resistance at this point. From there, the horror returns directly
to Far Shielings.

NO WORD FROM FAR SHIELINGS
Jaranil the Thunder turns up with several companions and
explains attacks started last night (a clue for the players as in
Far Shielings they will learn that they started three days ago).
The thanes are leading patrols up and down the Heort and
Danda. The weather has been too bad to reach Far Shielings,
Burnt Oak, Highstead, and the other villages in the interior.
With warmer weather today, Jaranil wants to send expeditions
to bring help to these villages.
Jaranil reaches into his satchel and produces a woolen
bundle that he unwraps before showing it to the PCs. It
contains a small glass sculpture of a Butterfly. He whispers in
its ear and it flies to one of the PCs, landing on their shoulder
to softly speak the Wind Lord’s message: “Greetings from
Jaranil the Thunder.”
Jaranil tells the PCs: “This is a Glass Butterfly, servant of
Issaries the Talking God, and a treasure of the Red Cow. Take it
with you in case you should run into the horror. The Butterfly
will reach me. Try to stay out of its way and alive until we can get
there.” Jaranil shows the flint-tipped, rune carved ashen spear he
carries. “This is the Meteor Spear that Garan gave us when he fell
from the Sky World to Seriasdova. It will strike the horror down.
Call me and I will come.”
Travel into the interior is by snowshoe. Treat it as a Costly
Success with Defeat indicating cold injuries like frostbite or
mild hypothermia. Walking speed in snowshoes is about 2
miles per hour.
Far Shielings

At Far Shielings, the signs of trouble are evident. At the main
settlement one of the longhouses is partially burnt, the wind
blows drifts of snow through the broken doors of another. There
are fresh graves in the urnfield.
Elmalandti the Lynx emerges from one hall and shouts for
the expedition to “come inside where it is warm.” Once inside
the PCs see the aftermath of the attack; the injured lie by the fire
with broken limbs and horrific wounds. “Thank Orlanth that
you have come,” Elmalandti begins, “the monster struck three
nights ago. We could do little to stop it; those who tried died.
Their bodies lie in the urnfield now.

80

“After the first attack, people were afraid to return, but
we could not flee to Red Cow Fort into a Brightnight with
the injured or the elderly. After a night hiding in the woods
where many got frostbite or hypothermia, we returned. There’s
been no attack since. We haven’t been able to journey to the
outlying steads. No one has heard from the Ragnarssons, the
Minarythssons, or the Filbarssons. Someone must go out there.”
There are two tasks here: help the people of the village
and travel to the outlying steads. If for any reason NPCs visit
the Filbarssons alone, they do not return alive, presumably
prompting an investigation.
Helping Far Shielings

The village needs medical care and help to secure the buildings
against the winter and someone to round up scattered livestock.
Everyone has been too afraid to wander from the village for the
latter, convinced the animals must be dead.
Fixing both longhouses will take a few days of hard labor
to cut wood, drag it to Far Shielings, saw planks, and replace
damaged walls, doors, pillar, and roof. The PCs should try
to make the residents as comfortable as possible until spring,
perhaps by cannibalizing one of the two steads to make one.
Any healer may have to work tirelessly to heal the injured. The
locals ask the PCs to track down any surviving livestock, already
meager here, return it to the village where they can butcher the
animals, and smoke them for food.
Treat this as a Group Simple Contest as everyone pools his
or her efforts to help. PCs can use their Red Cow Clan keyword
if they have nothing else, to mend, gather, track, and herd. PCs
who failed the terror contest with the horror earlier should use
the Consequences of Defeat from that contest as a penalty to
this — they are too afraid to go down to the woods.
Alternatively the PCs might suggest that the residents head
to Red Cow Fort. Elmalandti points out that travel across the
clan’s lands in the heart of Dark Season will be very hard on the
old and young, and he will need all the help he can get. “Is it not
better to remain here, than to flee?” he asks.
Persuading Elmalandti to leave has a High resistance. Treat
assisting the people to return as High. Interpret Defeat as deaths
amongst the refugees, and a penalty to the PCs’ Red Cow Clan
keyword for having suggested the course of action.
To The Ragnarssons’ Stead

The Ragnarssons’ Stead lies under a mile from Far Shielings
about thirty minutes in snowshoes. Once there the PCs find
destruction. The stead has collapsed, its roof fallen in. As the
PCs approach, they find the half-eaten corpse of a woman and
two young children in the snow. Searching through the remains
of the stead reveals the part-eaten remains of an older man and
his two adult sons.
There is little to do here apart from burning the dead, and
bury their ashes in a jar in the urnfield.
To The Minarythssons’ Stead

This stead is also the scene of butchery with half-eaten corpses, but
the stead is not wrecked, and its doors still open and shut. Some
of the corpses are armed but curiously it appears from the broken

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 3

spear haft protruding from one corpse so were their opponents.
The corpses of three Blueberry clan folk, two young women, and a
young man in their late teens are amongst the dead.
Outside someone notices smoke rising from a nearby byre.
The final Blueberry girl, Varsena Stillwaters, hides there. She is
scared and suspicious of the PCs, they could be more ogres. She is
dressed in scavenged cold weather gear and armed with a hand axe.
Varsena does not want to be found and flees the PCs’ approach,
abandoning her cooking pot. Chasing her down is one option,
any Victory should capture her, and any Defeat makes her harder
to capture or talk to. Winning her confidence and proving that
the PCs are not ogres may encourage her out of hiding. If the PCs
opt for this approach, any Victory coaxes her out of hiding with a
Benefit of Victory for finding out what happened.
Gaining information from her will be tough. She is
traumatized and utters phrases like “The ogres will gut you and
roast your hearts, just like the Minarythssons.”
She and her friends were invited to visit the Filbarssons’ stead
by Orlevor the Handsome for a romantic tryst and drinking.
They knew trekking in winter was dangerous, but they were
eager to win the approval of the Filbarsson boys. They arrived
at the Minarythssons’ stead to find everyone dead. They fled to
the Filbarssons’ but on the way people clad in winter clothes,
faces covered against the cold, attacked. (The attackers were
Orendal and Brastala in disguise, trying to cover for their
brother’s murderous rampage.) One of the Blueberry boys,
Hervald War-Born, was killed, and the remainder scattered.
Some headed to the Minarythssons’ stead but the raiders tracked
them down. “They killed them all,” she says sobbing, “and then
they butchered and devoured the dead.”
She is unwilling to go back to Far Shielings or Fordstone
alone. If the PCs drag her with them she accompanies them,
dropping caustic hints that everyone will soon be dead. If anyone
asks if she thinks that the Filbarssons are her attackers, she sinks
to the ground, hugs her knees to her chest, and begins rocking
herself, saying, “I don’t know, I don’t know. I just want to see
Orlevor, he loves me.”
The Filbarssons’ Stead

The Filbarssons stead shows little of the damage common at
the other Far Shielings’ steads. There are recent repairs to a root
cellar, but the Filbarssons explain that a hungry bear smashed
the doors down whilst looking for food. “Thank the gods but
we have not seen that horror up here. Hopefully Jaranil will kill
or drive it off, before anyone else is hurt.” The Filbarssons offer
food, ale, and a place by the fire. “It is getting late and you would
not want to be walking back to Far Shielings now. Who would
like a game of Sword and Shields? I have had no new opponents
since the flocks returned in Earth Season.” If anyone asks about
Orlevor, the Filbarssons look sad and explain that he went down
to the Minarythssons’ stead a couple of nights ago. “I think there
was some get-together with some Blueberry youngsters.”
Varsena does not speak out about any obvious lies of the
Filbarssons, such as Orlevor, she just prepares to take blood
vengeance in the night with her axe. If asked she will retort with
a sarcastic “Well what do you think?” clearly indicating her belief
that the Filbarssons are guilty.

If anyone tries to access the root cellar, the Filbarssons refuse.
They don’t explain why, they just refuse entry. If anyone tries
to gain entry, they let them, hoping that Orlevor will kill the
intruder. Meanwhile they will gather swords, shields, spears, and
helmets and fall on the others.
Spotting the Filbarssons’ tissue of lies is a contest. Any Victory
reveals the Filbarssons are liars and acts as a Benefit of Victory to
confrontations with them. Any Defeat indicates the PC believes
them to be plausible, and forms a penalty to confrontation. Use
a Group Simple Contest as the PCs may have varying opinions.
Remember that the Filbarssons are kin, so killing them is
kinstrife (Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes page 217), which risks
bringing exile on the killer and divine wrath on the Red Cow.
Of course, if the Filbarssons are consorting with Chaos, the
crime is so foul that the chieftain will retrospectively outlaw
them (Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes page 218), and praise the PCs
for ridding the clan of the threat. However, it is important to
be sure. If the PCs do not confront the Filbarssons and decide
to stay the night, the Filbarssons decide to murder them. Their
approach is simple, let the horror attack in the night, hang back,
and if the horror weakens the PCs enough, join the battle. If the
PCs seem to be having an easy time of it, they hope to fall back
on the ruse of pretending that they are just more victims of the
horror. If anyone enters the root cellar, it is a scene of horror.
Use the pass/fail cycle for the resistance, but treat the monster
as +W to the base resistance or Nearly Impossible, whichever
is higher. Even with Multiple Opponent Penalties this will be
tough for the PCs to face alone.
The PCs can summon aid using the Glass Butterfly Jaranil
gave them. If Jaranil is summoned he uses the Vanganth Feat
(Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes, page 122) to fly him and Kernalda
Other-Ways to assist. By flying, they cover ground far faster than
by snow shoe and can be with the PCs within half-an-hour of
receiving the message from the Glass Butterfly, about an hour
in total.
If Jaranil reaches the PCs and the horror is loose then his plan
is simple, he and Kernalda will swoop through the air, out of the
horror’s reach, pelting it with magic and javelins, while the PCs
form a ring of shields around the horror to prevent it fleeing.
Jaranil also carries Voriof ’s Crosier and he hands it to the PC
with the highest Air Rune rating. Many-Breath has magic to kill
ogres, drowning them with a cloud of water that pushes into
their lungs through their mouth and nose. Through the crozier,
the PC can use the Red Cow Magic Resource rating for the fight.
Give the PC a specific Ability bonus of +6.
A Wind Lord, as he fights the horror Jaranil shouts:
Foul slime, curse of existence, be gone!
Turn your back and flee from me.
I will kill you, you are evil.
Lie and whimper before me.
When Jaranil hurls the Meteor Spear, it leaves his hand with a
deafening crack, returning to his hand after impaling the horror.
With Jaranil and Kernalda making the first attacks against the
horror, Multiple Opponent Penalties ought to allow the PCs to
stand and fight.

1619

81

If Jaranil appears, realizing they are doomed the Filbarssons’
first instinct is to flee, relying on Orlevor to hold up any pursuit.
The PCs have to stop and kill them. Jaranil has no interest in
prisoners — Chaos should be destroyed. The ring has issued
clear instructions because they do not want word of the clan’s
ogre curse to spread.
The PCs might retreat to Far Shielings to allow enough
time for Jaranil to reach them. The Filbarssons are likely to
have second thoughts if the PCs left and hunt them down at
Far Shielings. Outnumbered the Filbarssons unleash the horror
to smash the main hall, and kill everyone inside. Elmalandti is
beside himself shouting at the PCs, “You fools, you have killed
us all!” Allow the PCs to face the horror for an exchange or two
before Jaranil arrives and orders them to break off while he and
Kernalda tackle the horror. Then have Jaranil order them to give
chase to the fleeing Filbarssons.

PLAY OF THE GAME
Begin with The Horror Attacks. Next steps from there depend
on how that played out. Most likely, the PCs did not kill or

82

seriously injure the horror so they will end up trying to survive
the attack and exposure to the elements. It is a good idea to hint
strongly to the PCs that attempting to fight the horror is too
much for them. Chaotic horrors are frightening to most people
who are not members of the Urox cult; and even most Uroxi will
get help if outmatched.
If the horror is injured or dying it flees back to Far Shielings
and the PCs should be able to track it. Even if they do not
think to do that themselves a leader like Jaranil or Ortossi may
suggest it. In that case, events play out much as described in Far
Shielings, but the horror is injured or dying.
Maximum game fun has the thane send the PCs to the
Ragnarssons, Minarythssons, and then the Filbarssons. Suggest
to the PCs that this route makes the most logical path to travel
from nearest stead out to furthest. Don’t try to force it if the PCs
choose a different strategy. Most likely, the players want to outwit
the scenario in this case, and will get a reward from trying to do
so. The lack of information from the other steads though means
they will actually struggle to uncover what is happening at the
Filbarssons even more. A PC who blunders into the root cellar
may get a great deal more than they bargained for in this case.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 3

• Chapter 4 •

1620

CONFLICTS

THE RING

WAR AGAINST THE TELMORI

Frekor Deep-Woods and Borngold Many-Brothers lead
the clan against the Telmori. Frekor has warned repeatedly
about this day. He reminds everyone of the destruction of the
Sanchali, the Years in Hiding, the fate of the Maboder, and the
Wolf Hunt.
For once, Broddi Strong-Kin and Griselda Gray-Tresses
are amongst the voices calling for war — neither believes the
wolfmen can be bargained with.
Darna Longcoat uses Farandar Orendalsson to suggest the
Red Cow should let their rivals waste their strength in conflict
with the wolfmen. Farandar notes that the Emerald Sword and
other Dinacoli clans, and the Two-Pines clan of the Culbrea,
have sent men to Jomes’ call. “Far better they should waste their
strength than us.”
Kullina the Fat points to Jomes’ failure to support the Red
Cow in their fight with the Dinacoli. “What do we owe him
after that judgment?” Many in the clan ask the same question.
Both Kullina and Farandar know Kallyr Starbrow has allied with
the Telmori, using their loyalty to the House of Sartar, and see
this uprising as a threat to the Empire not the Cinsina. They
know little of the internal conflict between Jogar Sog and Goram
White-Fang.

Kostajor Wolf-Champion is dead, a giant snake killed the old
man, crushing him as he slept. The Telmori Howl lasts for days,
and even Prince Temertain shows respect.
Unknown to any, his murderer is Jogar Sog. Jogar diverts the
blame, blaming the Ernalda cult for sending the snake. If any
Ernalda PCs stayed with Kostajor and Black-Paws he accuses
them, saying that the Telmori should never have welcomed
Cinsina guests — betrayal was inevitable. The Free Sartar faction
within the clan believes this rumor, and shuns the Ernaldan
PC as having betrayed Kostajor. The Wolfskinners by contrast
congratulate the PC on a “job well done.” Denials are not
believed without effort.
Jogar agitates for the Telmori to take their revenge on their
enemies. Jogar lost one of his eyes to Aethelric the Girl of the
Red Cow, and the other to Jomes Hostralos. He is a spiritual
leader, given visions of his people’s destruction at the hands of
their neighbors. “When my eyes were taken I saw a vision,”
he preaches, “the Great Liberator will come to Boldhome and
break our people, the cutters of Grandmother Earth will be
unfettered from Sartar’s treaties, and they will kill and scatter
our people.”
Jogar tells the Telmori, the Sartarites are weak from the
passage of the Crimson Bat, and the subsequent flood from
Snakepipe Hollow. With Jomes absent in Boldhome, advising
Prince Temertain, it is the time to rise: before the prophecy
comes true.
The Telmori have never forgotten their defeat by Jomes in
the Wolf Hunt. Despite their support for the Royal House, the
wolf brothers detest the tribes of the Jonstown Confederation
and expect their betrayal. Jogar’s words attract many to his
cause.

THE HERO WARS
SEA SEASON
Everyone learns that Kostajor Wolf-Champion is dead when the
Telmori raise a great howl that lasts for days. He was old, but the
manner of his death, crushed by a snake, and his service to the
House of Sartar mean that even the Cinsina show respect.

GORAM WHITE-FANG AND JOGAR SOG
Goram White-Fang remains loyal to the House of Sartar. For
this reason he keeps the Telmori Royal Guard in Boldhome
throughout Jogar Sog’s uprising.
Goram does not believe that Jogar’s uprising will succeed. He fought against Jomes during the Wolf Hunt, and
understands the quality of his leadership, and the support

he has amongst the tribes of the Jonstown Confederation.
He believes that the people can only suffer from this uprising, but his voice is lost beside the demagoguery of Jogar.
Privately Goram mistrusts Jogar, because he believes
the Ituvanu meddle with powers that will prove beyond
their control.

1620

83

Black-Paws Helkos demands a ransom for Green Meadows
children from the Red Cow. Broddi sends the PCs to get the
children back, and the PCs discover Telmori massing in Torkan’s
Vale. See the episode Kidnapped.
The fighting with the Telmori means the Red Cow become
keen to obtain more iron, used for spearheads and arrow points,
and needed to kill werewolves. If the Game Master has the
Sartar Companion, this is an ideal time to run The Gifts of Stone
adventure (Sartar Companion, page 223). Instead of the Oath of
Boldhome, the PCs might undertake the initial tribute as part of
the Cinsina’s Cold Hard Iron Tribute (see page XX).
At Whitewall the commander orders the Crimson Bat to
assault the city and exterminate the defenders, whom he calls
‘the last Orlanthi.’ Astonishingly, the Bat is repelled, though at
great cost to the defenders.

FIRE SEASON
The Lunar Army conquers Heortland. The foreign adventurer,
Rikard the Tiger-Hearted, is captured and offered the kingship,
but destroys the crown and goes into hiding. Only Whitewall
remains a center of resistance to the Lunar Occupation.
Concerned by gossip of large Telmori war camps gathering
in Torkan’s Vale, Broddi sends the PCs to Jomes to warn him of
the danger. Jomes is absent in Boldhome but the PCs witness
and escape an attack by Telmori warriors on Stonegate. See the
episode Danger in Wulfsland.
Jomes returns from Boldhome and persuades Queen Ivartha
to raise the Cinsina and march into Torkan’s Vale to wipe out the
Telmori. See the episode Kill Telmori.

EARTH SEASON
At the Goose Day ceremonies, Darna Longcoat falls to the
ground, frothing at the mouth. When the god-talkers rush to
her side, her eyes roll back in her head and she speaks in a sweet
but unearthly voice:
The end of the age comes,
And village walls will be soaked,
In the crimson gore,
Of the blood of the doomed.
The winds will stop,
Spring will not come,
And cries to the gods will go unheeded,
The Dark shall come again.
It will be a time of ice,
A time of axe and sword,
There will be too little wood,
To burn the numbers of the dead.
No more the Ring in the Sky,
The three new stars must rise,
To guide in the Great Dark,
Or all will be lost.

84

When Darna comes around, she remembers nothing of her
words. The women say Kev has sent this vision to warn the clan
— but they are divided as to what it means.

IMPORTANT NPCS
• Black-Paws Helkos
• Borngold Many-Brothers
• Broddi Strong-Kin
• Darna Longcoat
• Farandar Orendalsson
• Kullina the Fat
• Jaranil the Thunder
• Jogar Sog
• Frekor Deep-Woods
• Ivartha the Skinner
• Leikorl the Shadow
• Vastyr Bloody-Shirt
• Aethelric the Girl
• Ostling Spotted-Fur
• Orlmarl the Charioteer
• Estavia GoldEyes

KIDNAPPED
BEGIN WITH
The mood in Broddi’s hall is angry. The chieftain sits in his chair,
surrounded by his ring. Frekor Deep-Woods and Borngold ManyBrothers argue with Farandar Orendalsson and Kullina the Fat.
Broddi calls for silence breaking through the argument: “I
have reached my decision. Darna Longcoat will take the ransom
the wolfmen have demanded to their rendezvous. Once the
hostages are free, Borngold is free to hunt the kidnappers down,
and recover our treasure.”

CAST
Black-Paws Helkos, Borngold Many-Brothers, Broddi StrongKin, Darna Longcoat, Farandar Orendalsson, Kullina the Fat,
Jaranil the Thunder, Jogar Sog

SITUATION
Black-Paws Helkos, the Telmori war chieftain, has kidnapped
children from Green Meadows village and issued a ransom
demand to Red Cow. The price is an extortionate demand for
sheep, pigs, and beer. He threatens to sacrifice the children on
the next Wildday if the clan does not meet his demands. He also
promises to kill the children if the clan makes a rescue attempt.
Black-Paws’ demand is extortionate because he needs to
obtain supplies not just for his band, but for the packs gathered
in Torkan’s Vale under Jogar.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 4

Jogar has been gathering the Telmori to him in recent weeks,
speaking of a vision in which he saw them attacking Stonegate.
He tells the assembled braves his spies amongst Temertain’s
bodyguard assure him the hated Jomes is in Boldhome. Now is
the time to strike at his home in Stonegate.

CONNECTED EPISODES
Danger in Wulfsland, Emissaries, Patrol

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS
IN THE HALL
Loyalties

This scene exposes the divided loyalties amongst the Red Cow
toward the Telmori. Play on the loyalties the PCs are most
invested in: to the clan, to the rebellion, to chosen leaders.
This scene foreshadows the rivalry for Broddi’s chieftaincy, as
the key players all seek to exploit this crisis for their own ends. It
also foreshadows the coming struggle with the Telmori.
Broddi calls on the PCs to form part of the rescue mission:
“You will accompany Darna and see to it our children are
returned safely, then you will join with Borngold in hunting
down those dogs, and making sure that they learn never to
kidnap Red Cow children again.”
Darna approaches the PCs. She singles out one of them, who
she believes shows strong leadership and tells them: “I want you
to lead the expedition to Two Crowns, Borngold can take over
from there. Take the ransom and the mules we need to carry it,

and organize enough good fighters to protect our caravan. When
they are ready, you will lead us into Stagland.”
Darna nods to one of her assistants, who brings forward a
wooden chest. Darna opens it and pulls out an iron axe. “Take
this gift in anticipation of the service you will render. This axe,
Wolfbiter, will help you to cut down the Telmori, our enemies.”
This is an extremely valuable gift — make the PC aware
that by accepting it they enter Darna’s debt. By refusing it they
risk offending her. Give the PC a Directed Improvement of
Wolfbiter, Iron Axe if they accept and a Directed Improvement
of In Debt to Darna Longcoat. If they refuse give them a Directed
Improvement of Spurned Darna Longcoat.
Borngold approaches any of the PCs he knows to be enemies
of the Telmori (which is probably anyone who is not publicly
known to be part of the Free Sartar faction). His brow is
furrowed: “We cannot let these werewolves take any reward for
kidnapping our children. If we do, others will come to take our
children as well. We must make an example of them, so that all
Telmori know never to touch a Red Cow child. We cannot let
Broddi’s weakness put us all in danger.”
Borngold turns to whoever Darna’s leader is and says: “Darna
has gifted you a pretty bauble for your service. We both know I
should be leading this rescue mission, to ensure that our children
our safe. I am glad Darna has such faith in you, but do not hesitate
to call on my advice when you need it.” As usual Borngold comes
over as patronizing although his offer of support is well meaning.
Borngold has a particular word for any PC accused of
Kostajor’s death: “I know I can count on you, wolfkiller.”
Farandar approaches any PCs he knows to be friends of the
rebellion (probably anyone allied to the Free Sartar faction). He

The Exchange at Two Crowns

1620

85

takes them into his confidence: “Do not let Borngold stir up a
war with the Telmori! We must not forget who the real enemy
of Sartar is, the Lunar Empire. The Telmori Royal Guard has
long been loyal to the House of Sartar, and provided we keep
to Sartar’s treaties, so will they. I have met Goram White-Fang,
leader of the Royal Guard, and I can trust that wolf brother.
Kallyr herself has allied with the Telmori against the Empire, and
we all know the Maboder deserved their fate. They were once our
enemies, and refused to fight in the defense of our homeland.”
If the PCs were amongst those who accompanied Ashart to
the Wolf Hills in 1619, Farandar reminds them that they learned
Kostajor was a friend to the House of Sartar.
Farandar shuns any PC framed with Kostajor’s death.
Expedition

The PC has to organize the expedition. Darna will help secure
mules for their caravan and source goods for the ransom from
the many storehouses in Red Cow Fort.
Give the PC in charge of the expedition access to the clan’s
Wealth Resource, for use in negotiating with the Telmori.
Jaranil the Thunder will send out the call for some of the
better-equipped members of the militia — the short call — to
join the PCs. He only selects those who have some magic to kill
werewolves.
Jaranil will offer all the PCs advice: “Save the children
first, but then crush the wolfmen. We have too many enemies
thinking we have grown fat and weak, we must show them what
the Brave Tribe is made from. Bring back wolfskins and throw
them at Broddi’s feet, to show how we treat those who would
steal our kin.”

PROOF OF LIFE
Two Crowns

The Red Cow mule train sets out from Red Cow Fort, traveling
through Stagland. The band consists of Darna Longcoat with
eighteen mules and four cottars to help drive them escorted by
Borngold, Aethelric and Frekor Deep-Woods commanding six
armed men in addition to the PCs.
The Telmori set the exchange to be at Two Crowns, a
landmark in Stagland where two old statues of kings, twenty feet
high, their names long forgotten, stare at each other.
It may come as a surprise to the Red Cow, but this is no
simple warband. There are eighty Telmori camped here, an entire
den, half are women and children, and of the remainder, only
twenty are braves; there are as many wolves as adults. The PCs
won’t discover this without scouting.
Scouts

If the PC in charge does not decide to send scouts to investigate
Two Crowns, Borngold will ‘helpfully’ suggest scouting would
be wise.
Any PCs scouting ahead of the expedition find the Telmori
pack camped at Two Crowns.
The wolves watch the approaches to the camp. Scouting
for the missing children is a contest. Success allows the Red
Cow scouts to see the size of the Telmori camp and that the

86

children are tied up in its center. Failure alerts the camp to the
scouts. If alerted the camp will rouse, Black-Paws will threaten
to kill the children, fearing a Red Cow double-cross. Treat the
Consequences of Defeat as a penalty in the Exchange.
The Exchange

Black-Paws is cautious about bringing the children out to begin
with; he wants the ransom placed in the center of the clearing
before he brings them out. Things are particularly fractious if the
Telmori spotted their scouts.
Darna will tell her chosen PC to ask for proof of life. BlackPaws will not send all the children forward at once, and at most
to prove life he will bring one out to show them.
If the PCs met Black-Paws in the Wolf Hills during Flight
from the Bat, and if one of the PCs is an Ernaldan and Jogar
has accused her of killing Kostajor Wolf-Champion, he will be
even more hostile and far less trusting. He demands the PC he
believes responsible for his father’s death is handed over, as part
of the settlement. Borngold won’t support this, but Darna might
if she sees the PC as a potential future rival.
Run this as a contest, with the PC chosen to lead the
expedition. Frame the contest as trying to ensure the best possible
exchange for the Red Cow clan. The right use of confidence
and intimidation could reduce the amount the Red Cow needs
to pay. Remember the PC should use the Red Cow’s Wealth
Resource and the Game Master should applying effects from the
contest result using the Resource Depletion table.
Most likely the Red Cow and the Telmori will end up swapping
children for a mule full of the ransom, one at a time, with tension
ratcheting to what happens when the last child is exchanged.
Darna will be pressurizing the PC to let her get the children to
safety. If the scouts know the numbers, Borngold will not support
a sudden attack, preferring to stalk and pick off the Telmori oneby-one. But if no one knows how big the camp is, Borngold will
lead an attack as soon as the children are safely in Darna’s hands.
If there is a fight here the den spills out of the woods, and
the Red Cow find themselves outnumbered by the braves, as
well as every man, woman and child who can pick up a spear
or tomahawk. Any fight here is Nearly Impossible for the Red
Cow due to the sheer numbers against them, and the PCs may
find themselves fleeing such an unequal encounter. Treat this as
a Group Simple Contest.
Borngold will be stung by any Defeat here — but will blame
it on the lack of intelligence offered by the PC leader when they
failed to send out scouts.
Unless the PCs get a Complete Victory (unlikely) there will
be Telmori survivors and Borngold will still be eager to hunt
them down.

PURSUIT
The Hunt

Once they have freed the children, Darna takes a small escort
back to Red Cow Fort. If there was a fight and there are wounded,
Darna takes those in need of healing back with her.
Borngold asserts that as per Broddi’s instructions, he is in
charge now and he will lead the hunt for the Telmori. The PC

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 4

might resist being relieved of command, there is a loss of honor
and the expedition may just have lost an initial skirmish, but
the PC ought to obey Broddi’s wishes. If a PC objects, Borngold
challenges him or her to a duel (see Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes,
page 216) to first blood (anything else would be kinstrife).
Borngold will be constantly judging the performance of the
PCs, making snide remarks about their ability or competence.
The PCs might come to dislike Borngold because of this, but it
is also important to show him as a competent leader and have
him offer the PCs his respect as they demonstrate competence.
Borngold will use hit-and-run tactics to harry the pack,
picking off stragglers or individuals, pushing the pack back to
their territory.
The following scenes are provided for the pursuit, though
they are not all required. You should run ‘Ambushed’ when you
are ready to move on to the next scene.
Stragglers

The Red Cow warband comes across a group of stragglers — two
young men are pulling a travois; an old woman swaddled in furs
lies on the travois. An old wolf lies on the end of the travois,
curled around the woman’s feet. Three woman and four children
walk nearby; one of the children is under-five, clutching a ragged
doll in one hand. One of the women berates the two young men,
who are struggling with their burden. Wolves accompany all of
the adults in the band, and there are three wolf cubs as well.
Borngold grasps his axe, and motions to the warband to form
a wedge behind him. He hisses to them: “No prisoners!”
The Telmori will put up a fight, but will ultimately pose little
threat to the Red Cow. The question here is to whether the PCs
happily participate in the slaughter of Telmori children, or resist.
If they do object, then frame a scene to see how the others react.
Treat their Red Cow Clan keyword or any Hate Telmori Ability
as a Flaw to stop this. If the PCs lose the contest, not only does
the warband attack but other members of the clan may distrust
the PCs in the future as “wolf lovers.” Crass remarks and insults
may flow in the PCs’ direction. If the PCs win then Borngold’s
influence with the warband wanes as they perceive him as
“frothing at the mouth like a mad Uroxi.”
Scouting Ahead

Borngold sends the PCs scouting ahead of the Telmori pack,
which moves slowly with its pregnant women and children.
The PCs discover the Telmori pack must pass through a
wooded defile. The steep slopes provide a perfect place from
which to ambush the pack, hurling missile weapons and
retreating before the Telmori can close.
There is insufficient time to return to the main warband —
but the PCs could launch their own ambush here.
Ambushed

The Telmori decide to turn the tables on their pursuers. They try
to lure their opponents into an ambush with the bait of a small
group, one of whom is being dragged on a litter, presumably
hurt, and left behind in case they slowed the band down.
Borngold dispatches the PCs to give chase: “Hunt them down,
they are wounded, this should be an easy kill, even for you.”

Once the PCs give chase, they are drawn into a dead-end in
a steep-sided hollow, the decoys escaping by rope while missiles
rain from above. The Telmori objective here is to escape, having
split the Orlanthi.
In the meantime, the main part of the Telmori warband has
ambushed Borngold.
During the fight in the hollow the PCs hear the blowing of a
horn — meaning that Borngold’s band is in trouble. They need
to race back to save him.
When the PCs reach them the remaining Telmori have
ambushed the warband at a ford across a wide stream. Many of
the short-call men lie dead, their blood staining the brook red.
Only Borngold remains standing, badly wounded, and blowing
his horn to summon help.
The PCs need to rescue Borngold and in doing so will earn
his respect and friendship.
After the fight it is clear a number of the warband have been
captured and dragged off by the Telmori as prisoners.
Prisoners

Anyone captured by the Telmori encounters will be taken as a
prisoner to Jogar Sog’s camp near Wolf Stand. Borngold will
refuse to leave any man behind, stating that, “Our comrades will
die, unless a man steps up to do this job.”

THE GATHERING
Eventually the pursuit of Black-Paws’ band leads the Red Cow to
a huge Telmori encampment near Wolf Stand in Torkan’s Vale.
There are about 20 packs camped here, some 800 Telmori. Many
are bachelor packs of young men. The Red Cow is outnumbered
and cannot hope to fight this many Telmori. Allow the Red
Cow a vantage point on a hill to see Black-Paws arrive in camp.
Whoops and cheers fill the air and warriors dance for joy as he
shows them the spoils of his raid.
A figure strides out to meet Black-Paws. At first, he seems to
cast no shadow, and then watchers realize his shadow is there, but it
moves independently of him. He is naked but for a badly stitched
leather cloak made from a patchwork of skins. There are two dark
holes where his eyes should be and he seems to sniff his way.
Borngold recognizes him. “Jogar Sog,” he tells the others,
“one of their shaman. Aethelric cut out one of his eyes and
Jomes took the other. Now he snuffles his way about. He has
gathered the packs. I suspect this many have not gathered since
the Maboder were overrun.”
Borngold is eager to return to Red Cow and warn the Cinsina
that Jogar Sog has roused the packs, but if there are prisoners tells
everyone they must first free the captives. “That cloak of Jogar
Sog’s is made of human skin and our ancestors would not forgive
us if we let our kin be bound into his cloak.”
Freeing any prisoners requires stealth, outnumbered as the Red
Cow party is. Brute force would be Nearly Impossible. The Game
Master should adjudicate other resistances depending on the plan.
Whether the PCs sneak into the camp, or try to creep away
immediately one ideal ending to this scene is to have a Telmori
scout stumble across the Red Cow, raising an alert with a Howl
rousing the camp. As the Telmori take up the Howl, it becomes
clear the Red Cow must flee for their lives.

1620

87

The PCs must escape the massed gathering of Telmori. The
Howl continues to rise behind them, growing in intensity as
wolves and men begin trying to run the ‘spies’ down before they
can take word of the gathering out of the valley.
Treat escape from the pursuing Telmori as an Extended
Contest. Any Victory represents the PC escaping, and any
Defeat represents the PCs surrounded by large numbers of
howling Telmori.

RAISING THE ALARM

benches, collapsed from exhaustion. Broddi brings forth a chest.
Reaching inside he pulls out a delicate Glass Butterfly. With the
Telmori massing along Torkan’s Vale, Broddi and Ivartha need a
sure way of communicating with Jomes. He asks the PCs to take
the Butterfly to Jomes at Stonegate.
It is Fireday and tomorrow is Wildday. Queen Ivartha stresses
the importance of reaching Stonegate before Wildday when the
Telmori take wolf form. She offers the PC leader a gift of iron,
either a sword, ten arrowheads, or two spear points.

When the PCs deliver news of the pending Telmori invasion to
Broddi at Red Cow Fort, everyone is in shock at the thought of
the Telmori gathering in such large numbers. Broddi calls for
Jaranil the Thunder, and has him send housecarls to find Queen
Ivartha. “We must alert Jomes,” he says.

CAST

PLAY OF THE GAME

From the Dolutha, Hiord left his clan when he could not stand
Ivar Quickstep’s rule any longer. He has adventured in Pavis and
Heortland.
Hiord is typical of the wandering Orlanthi mercenary who
has served many masters from the old chieftain Arnal, Krogar
Wolfhelm a Pavic Wind Lord, and Rikard the Tiger-Hearted
a Malkioni adventurer. He has little loyalty to nations such as
Sartar; instead, he follows ‘strong men.’
Hiord justifies himself to rebels by saying Jomes is ‘different’
from the normal run of Lunars. He regards most anti-Lunar
Sartarites as ‘naïve.’

Avoid falling into the trap of simply having the PCs follow orders
with this episode. Darna Longcoat rarely acts directly preferring
the agency of others, whom she can blame for failure. She will
always ask a PC to take the initiative or accomplish some risky
task. Of course, Darna makes out that she is doing the PC a favor
by offering them responsibility and they owe a debt of trust to her.
At the same time, you want the PCs to interact with the
NPCs. Without that interaction there is no variation to this
episode, which could simply be a chase. Putting some tension
amongst the pursuers helps increase the conflict. If the PCs have
rivals, increase the tension further by including them in the party.
Paying the ransom, and failing to recover it will deplete the
Red Cow’s Wealth Resource by -3.
The Telmori make the exchange on Clayday, so it is unlikely
the PCs need to worry about an involuntary transformation into
werewolves. This day suits Black-Paws too — he needs to get the
mules carrying the supplies to his camp, and being in wolf form
would not make that easy.
It is possible that injured PCs will be captured by the Telmori,
and taken to Wolf Stand. Jogar Sog will want to torture captured
prisoners for information, before finally flaying them alive in
front of the gathered packs and sowing their skin into his cloak.
Captured PCs should be given opportunities to escape captivity
before they meet this fate; some captured NPCs meeting this
grisly end should be enough to motivate escape. All sorts of
common escape ruses such as feigning sickness, digging out
under the edge of the hut, goading your captors to use you for
target practice then dodging their javelins to escape, etc., should
be possible. PCs who escape may lead a rescue effort.

Broddi Strong-Kin, Jomes Hostralos, Jogar Sog, Ivartha the
Skinner, Tatoukal Blackbeard

HIORD THE TALL gst

Hiord the Tall gst
Bloodline: Jarosarings
Faction: Own Two Feet
Age: 38
Keywords: Mercenary
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth s
Look: Short beard, streaks of gray hair, tall

BARLANTH OX-STRONG gWx
A huge bull of a man, Barlanth is the headman of Sunny Brook.
An Orlanthi farmer of Aggar stock, he came here ten years ago
following Jomes Hostralos in search of new land. Full-of-life,
happy to knock heads together, he is determined to save his
investment in this land, and the buildings. He has sweated blood
and tears for this land. His wife is buried here, and he won’t be
forced out.
Barlanth Ox-Strong gWx

DANGER IN WULFSLAND

Nation: Aggar

BEGIN WITH

Keywords: Farmer

Broddi Strong-Kin summons the PCs to his hall. Queen
Ivartha is there too. Both look tired as though they have been
talking long into the night. Their households lie sleeping on the

88

Faction: Own Two Feet
Age: 46
Magic: Initiate of Barntar g
Look: Goatee beard, muscled, balding

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 4

KOSCHEI SON-OF-THE-OX 2Ws
Koschei is Barlanth’s son and Griselda’s husband. An initiate of
the Seven Mothers, his father never understood his conversion to
the Lunar Way. Koschei is more pragmatic than his father.
Koschei Son-Of-The-Ox 2Ws
Bloodline / Nation: Aggar
Faction: Imperial Loyalists
Age: 22

Jogar Sog’s intelligence is better than the Cinsina’s and the
PCs will not find Jomes in Stonegate. However, they will be able
to leave the Glass Butterfly with Jomes’ lieutenants and so ensure
communication between Red Cow Fort and Stonegate. As in the
Years in Hiding the Orlanthi prepare to retreat to their forts for
protection from the Telmori.
The PCs need to be at Stonegate by nightfall. The new day,
which begins at dusk, is Wildday, the day of the Full Moon and
the day when the Telmori take wolf form.

CONNECTED EPISODES

Keywords: Farmer
Magic: Initiate of the Seven Mothers 2

Emissaries, Kidnapped, Kill Telmori

Look: Beard, handsome, shaved pate

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS

GRISELDA 3lx
She is pregnant and in labor. Griselda is a feisty young steadwife,
who came from Tarsh to settle in the new land, and build a
prosperous future for her children and grandchildren. She is
a tough frontierswoman. She married the handsome young
Koschei, and is mother of his two young sons.
Griselda 3lx
Nation: Tarsh
Faction: Imperial Loyalists
Age: 20
Keywords: Farmer
Magic: Initiate of the Seven Mothers 2
Look: Long brown hair, heavily pregnant, short

EMISSARIES
Patrol

As the PCs set out toward Stonegate, they encounter a patrol
of Jomes’ mercenaries. There are six of them, all mounted.
Hiord the Tall leads the patrol. The members of the patrol are
mercenaries but otherwise use the Sartar Patrol encounter from
Sartar Companion (page 134).
The patrol ‘offers’ to escort the PCs to Stonegate.
If asked, most are aware the Telmori braves have been bolder
of late, and that the smoke signals and drums speak of a shaman
Jogar Sog who will ‘lead the people to victory.’
If questioned, Hiord will explain that Jomes is in Boldhome,
but tells the PCs that Tatoukal Blackbeard will talk with them.

DRUMS ALONG THE CREEK

HROTHGAR THE SLAVE sgX
This slave is a former Maboder thrall. A young man when
Jomes took the land, he is now in his forties, a good age for
a slave forced to work the land. He wears a big heavy bronze
collar, with chains, the legacy of one fight too many with a
master. He hates the Telmori who destroyed his tribe, but he
hates his masters too. Barlanth sees his slaves as little more
than animals.
Hrothgar the Slave sgX
Tribe: Maboder
Faction: Daughter of Mabodh
Age: 42
Keywords: Thrall

Drums begin to thump out. Hiord turns to everyone: “Telmori
war drums! Jogar Sog is on the move.” He addresses the PCs:
“We are close to Stonegate, about two miles. I want to head out
to Sunny Brook and evacuate the people there to Stonegate. My
mission is to escort you to the Stonegate. I will take you straight
there if you demand it. I cannot let you go alone. But if you are
willing to put yourselves at risk for Jomes’ people, I am sure he
will reward you.”
For any PCs who think about heading for Stonegate use their
Red Cow Clan keyword as a resistance to be overcome — as they
ignore the Red Cow virtue of courage and hatred of the Telmori.
If the PCs agree to go to Sunny Brook, the patrol leads on at
a good pace. Hiord tries to get people without horses to double
up, or run holding onto the saddle pommel for speed.
Sunny Brook

Magic: None
Look: Short brown hair, beard, short

SITUATION
Jogar Sog has sounded the war drums and his band raids
Wulfsland in force. Jogar Sog is convinced the fighting in
Heortland has drawn off the strength of the Empire. With Jomes
frequently absent in Boldhome, now is the time to strike.

Telmori surround the steadfast. There are guards on the palisade
wall, but too few against a concerted attack. Surrounding the
village is the walled homefield, and byres, barns, root cellars,
folds, and sties. An outlying barn is on fire.
Telmori are everywhere in the farmyard and buildings —
naked, tattooed, their faces painted black. Wolves run everywhere,
howling and snarling over the bodies of sheep in the fold.
Hiord tells the PCs he wants to get into the village, and then
out again. “The countryside is alive with Telmori and it is only a

1620

89

can drive off the werewolves. At
Stonegate, they may be overwhelmed
by the tide of the attack and unable
to send help back to the beleaguered
Sunny Brook. See below for options
at this point.

STONEGATE

The Telmori lay seige to Sunny Brook
matter of time before they gather enough courage to storm the
walls. If we leave them, they will be overrun.”
The steadfast is home to eighty-five people, of whom forty
are adults and the remainder children. Of the adults, twenty
are members of the militia, armed with spear and shield. Five
members of the militia are veterans of the Biliz Highlanders and
act as watch commanders for the village.
Surrounding the village are twenty Telmori braves and their
wolf brothers. They are too few to have the courage to storm the
walls and decided to wait for nightfall when they will transform
into werewolves.
Any attempt to leave will be hampered by elders and children.
There are insufficient mounts for everyone and the Telmori would
pick off stragglers. For increased complexity, having Griselda go
into labor will increase the difficulty in making a run for it.
The PCs potentially have three options. The first is to endure
the Wildday assault on Sunny Brook, sheltering behind the safety
of walls the wolves must breach. The second is to try to attack
the besiegers or at least to lead them off, allowing the villagers to
flee to the safety of Stonegate. Lastly, they could try to send for
help from Stonegate or Red Cow Fort, hoping reinforcements
can arrive in time to relieve them.
The first is likely to end badly. A shaman arrives to aid the
Telmori, and he unleashes a wolf spirit which first terrifies the
defenders with a howl (Very High resistance) and then charges
into the gate of the steadfast, bursting its crude rope hinges as it
knocks the gate down. The wolf men follow in a howling mass. A
lack of Rune Metal weapons or killing magic means the villagers
cannot hope to kill one werewolf for every life they lose. A simple
numbers game will lead to the village being overwhelmed and its
inhabitants massacred. The PCs may be left trying to flee from
the jaws of the wolf men, dragging survivors in tow.
The second holds more promise, if the PCs attack before
nightfall and inflict severe enough casualties to rile the Telmori
into giving chase or rout them. Scouting parties though may still
dog any escape to Stonegate.
If the PCs chose the third it depends on their choice. At Red
Cow Fort Queen Ivartha and her household can render aid and

90

Whether the PCs endure at Sunny
Brook, press on without rendering
aid, or try to escape, or send here for
aid, they must eventually come here
to complete their mission.
Refugees stream into Stonegate.
From the high watchtower over the
fort, Jomes’ mercenaries scan for
approaching danger, as people push
and shove to enter the safety of the
fort’s wooden palisade. Inside people beg space by the hearth
from kin or just camp where they can.
Tatoukal Blackbeard provides some kind of order, recording
names, making notes on maps. When the PCs arrive, Tatoukal asks
about their experiences and takes notes. If they mention Sunny
Brook Tatoukal shakes his head. “Poor devils,” he says, but gestures
around. “I cannot spare anyone — we expect an attack here.”
If the PCs ask about Jomes, Tatoukal tells them he is not
at Stonegate, but in Boldhome, where he has command of the
military forces in Sartar, in Fazzur’s absence. He will accept the
Glass Butterfly on Jomes’ behalf if the PCs offer it.
The Glass Butterfly can save the day for the people of Sunny
Brook and Stonegate. Either Tatoukal or the PCs can use it to
summon help from Red Cow Fort (in fact the PCs might have
thought of this earlier, saving one of their number the risk of
heading cross country from Sunny Brook).
Tatoukal tells the PCs: “Jomes took many of the Bordermen
with him to Boldhome, as part of his household. We are under
strength here. I would take it as an act of friendship by the
Red Cow if you would help our defense.” Tatoukal is a capable
administrator, but not a warrior, and he is out of his depth leading
the defense of Stonegate. Give the PCs the opportunity to step
up to lead, if not have Hiord take command of the Bordermen.
If any of the PCs are well known within the rebellion,
Maboder slaves may make contact with them. They invite the
PCs to a meeting with the slave’s god-talkers of Ernalda. These
women will talk movingly of the plight of many of the former
Maboder women, who survived the Telmori onslaught only to
end up destitute and enslaved into Jomes’ service. They will try to
play on Red Cow fears of Jomes following the Lunar settlement
with the Emerald Sword, suggesting that they too may one day
find themselves enslaved.
They urge the PCs to join with Enastara the Red, telling
them that Kullina the Fat and Farandar Orendalsson already
support them.
Assault on Stonegate

A horn sounds in the watchtower and a shout “Close the gate,
close the gate!” It has been held open all this time to allow the

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 4

last of the refugees to reach safety. In the distance, there is a
huge answering roar. Anyone on the watchtower sees werewolves
burst through the trees, running fast. The timber gate seems to
creek and groan and Hiord shouts, “Put your backs into it!” The
werewolves move with unearthly speed, their paws glowing with
fiery red magic. Some burst through the entrance, just as the doors
slam shut behind them, and begin attacking the gate guards.
The PCs’ actions should be allowed to decide the day here.
Allow them to witness the last of the gate guards falling and make
it clear no one else is close enough to close the gates in time. Frame
the contest for the PCs to make it clear that the prize is that they
need to close the gates before the main body of the werewolf
assault can burst in. The PCs need to wind the windlass which
pulls the gates shut. Up to four of them can combine their efforts
on this. Spare PCs can Assist them. That assistance might be to
fight off the werewolves who have already made it through the
gates and are intent on preventing the PCs from closing it.
If any of the PCs working the windlass obtains a Victory,
allow the PCs to close the gates before more werewolves can
burst into Stonegate. Additional guards arrive to help finish off
those few who have made it in already. A Defeat for all the PCs
working the windlass means they have failed to close the gate.
Individual PCs who suffer Defeats are most likely wounded to
their Defeat level, though the Game Master should determine
this from the narrative at the table.
If the PCs close the gate, the werewolves circle the fort. One
or two use magic to leap atop the walls but the veterans of the
Biliz Highlanders are able to mob and kill them with magic and
iron. Each time the wolves come in more force, and each time the
thinly stretched Bordermen look more like losing the struggle.
Play out a siege in this case, as the wolfmen seek to take the fort
before Wildday ends and the defenders seek to hold it. The PCs
should be on the wall when the wolfmen attack, and directing
the battle. If any PC is leading, have him make a roll against a
High resistance to keep the werewolves from overrunning the
wall. The shaman from Sunny Brook may appear, to unleash a
spirit wolf to burst the gates, but the gates here are the famous
stone gates, and blunt the wolf spirit’s attempt.
If the gates or walls are overrun, the werewolves burst through
and into the fort, terrorizing the inhabitants, tearing apart
anyone they find. Many of the mercenaries die, outnumbered
and overwhelmed. The residents fall back to the buildings,
barricading themselves inside, and trying to ignore the screams
of the livestock. The werewolves even smash through doors and
shutters on a few of the less well built buildings, often the homes
of slaves and massacre them.
Eventually help arrives, summoned by the Butterfly. Ivartha
and Jomes appear, with a relief force, comprising both their
households and the Red Cow warband. Jomes Hostralos shines
in his burnished breastplate and greaves as he walks. He barks
commands and men jump into action. Ivartha is a tempest,
cutting her way through the werewolves, who fall back howling.
Once the camp is relieved, wine is passed around amongst
the defenders; healers wash and tend to wounds. Jomes strides
authoritatively around the fort; it is obvious his men worship him.
After speaking to Tatoukal, Jomes approaches the PCs, “I was
with Queen Ivartha when your word arrived. Broddi tells me

that you brought the Glass Butterfly, and Tatoukal and Hiord
have told me how steadfast you were in defense of my lands.”
He clasps the hands of each of them in turn. Then he
addresses them as a group. “You will always be welcome at my
hearth here in Stonegate, and I would welcome you amongst my
Bordermen” he tells them. “We must stand together, brothers in
arms against the wolfmen.”
Allow the PCs a Directed Improvement under their Red Cow
Clan keyword of Friendship of Jomes Hostralos. Of course Lunarhating PCs may refuse this keyword. The Game Master may
count this Ability as a Flaw — rumor will reach the rebellion of
their help for the Wulfslanders.
He embraces Broddi, and then returns to attend to his
own people.
If anyone questions Jomes about the judgment on the Red
Cow he will say, “That was Gordius’ judgment, not mine.”

PLAY OF THE GAME
In play-testing, the PCs always headed to Sunny Brook to try to save
the village. Most groups tried a ruse to draw off the Telmori, such
as trying to draw the Telmori off to chase one group of PCs whilst
the others helped the refugees to safety, or trying to decapitate the
Telmori leadership in the hope the others would flee. No one in
play-testing used the Glass Butterfly to summon help at that point.
If the PCs do summon help at Sunny Brook, be careful to
avoid the focus of attention switching to Queen Ivartha for the
remainder of the episode. Make it clear Queen Ivartha wants
them to carry out Broddi’s mission to Stonegate, whilst she
returns to Red Cow Fort to warn the Cinsina. She tells the PCs
to expect her coming at Stonegate — this gives you the chance to
have the PCs lead the defense there, until she arrives.
Jomes will be grateful for the PCs’ aid, and spends time with
them, treating them as fellow soldiers in the struggle against the
wolfmen. It would be a mistake to become too familiar, and
Tatoukal will take PCs who do so aside for a chat. Jomes is still a
Field Commander, and the PCs are just barbarians.
This episode has a lot of fighting. If you have PCs whose
abilities focus on talking, remember the negotiators amongst
the PCs play a key role in convincing the folk of Sunny Brook
to leave. Healers may have to assist a pregnant woman, or one
who has recently given birth on the trail to Stonegate. In the
final battle there will be many casualties and healers can help by
keeping men alive. A healer might also face a normal Telmori
wolf, instead of a werewolf as an opponent.

KILL TELMORI
BEGIN WITH
Queen Ivartha and Jomes are recruiting spears in Red Cow Fort.
They plan an expedition into Torkan’s Vale to kill the Telmori
massing there.
Borngold Many-Brothers and Frekor Deep-Woods raise
Queen Ivartha on a shield so that she can address the crowd.

1620

91

With their support, she speaks to those who might volunteer to
join Jomes’ raid into Torkan’s Vale.
“Jomes and I fought against the wolfmen many years ago,
and now we need to raise the tribes to fight again. Jogar Sog does
not respect the treaties his people made with the Royal House of
Sartar. Even Goram White-Fang speaks against him.
“We need people to march with us to Torkan’s Vale and kill
Telmori. Your ancestors will bless this work, because the Cinsina
are the wolf killers, and the Brave Tribe who have stood many
times with stout hearts against the werewolf menace.
“Borngold Many-Brothers and Frekor Deep-Woods, my own
dear kinsman, support me now, and I hope you too, seeing their
example, will also join me.”
She also points out that Jomes is offering to pay each recruit
two silver guilders a day during the campaign, four guilders for
each day of fighting, and ten for the pelt of a werewolf.
Jomes is clear: “Bring me Jogar Sog’s head!”

TWIST
It should be clear that Jomes couldn’t muster the manpower to
tackle the Telmori from the Lunar garrison — especially as so
many troops are fighting in the Holy Country to the south. This
not only means that many of those taking part are mercenaries
fighting for Lunar coin, but also many question the Empire’s
ability to effectively garrison Sartar. Eventually though someone
always ends the conversation with: “Of course the Empire has
the Crimson Bat.” Everyone nods, and the conversation ends.
Who could resist the demon?

CAST

Jomes’ muster comes to 500 fighting men and an equal
number of porters, healers, cooks, and other camp followers. Jomes draws a core of a hundred men from his
own mercenaries; the bulk remainder comes from the
tribes of the Jonstown Confederation with other groups
providing no more than a hundred fighters.

Cinsina, Culbrea, Malani, and Torkani. There are men and
women from the Aranwyth tribe here too, for they often war
with the wolfmen and Dinacoli, Tarshite mercenaries and Lunar
adventurers, and his best troops, the Lunar vexillae: Legate
Bisomen’s Men, the Scorching Swords, and the Silver Shields.
The Cinsina tribesfolk mutter about having to fight alongside
their enemies. There are no regular Lunar units here, all of
those are required to prosecute the war in the Holy Country, or
garrison Sartar. Therefore, Jomes must rely on his own men and
the Sartarites.
Jomes addresses the assembled troops. “The Telmori have
taken hostages, murdered innocent farmers, women, and
children, and entered lands that by treaty do not belong to them.
Too long have we allowed their actions to go unpunished; they
grew bold and fearless because of our tolerance of their actions.
This will be a hard fight, some of you gathered here will not
return from it. However, there is glory and honor in the fight
against the wolfmen who have killed so many of the ancestors of
the people here.”
Execution

Borngold Many-Brothers, Frekor Deep-Woods, Ivartha the
Skinner, Kullina the Fat, Farandar Orendalsson, Broddi
Strong-Kin, Leikorl the Shadow, Vastyr Bloody-Shirt, Darna
Longcoat, Aethelric the Girl, Black-Paws Helkos, Jogar Sog,
Ostling Spotted-Fur

CONNECTED EPISODES
Danger in Wulfsland, War

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS
Rebels

Red Cow rebels like Kullina the Fat, or Farandar Orendalsson,
try to talk the PCs out of joining the muster. “The Telmori
are loyal to the Royal House of Sartar,” they say. “Jomes is our
enemy, and his people have taken Maboder lands. We must not
help him to keep those lands.”

JOMES’ MUSTER
Jomes musters his army outside Stonegate on gt. of 1620. The
serried ranks gather before a large flat rock in front of a wooded
copse from which the leaders can stand and address them. The
army comes from many places. There are Jomes’ Border Wulf
Peltasts, mercenaries from across the Jonstown Confederation:

92

HOW MANY SOLDIERS?

Queen Ivartha steps forward. She gives gives a signal and Vastyr
and Leikorl drag forward a Telmori prisoner, bound in iron
chains. The hostage looks proud and defiant. “Ostling SpottedFur,” the queen says, “Kostajor Wolf-Champion agreed to keep
to the Wolf Hills and hunt no further than Torkan’s Vale. Your
life was given to keep that oath. When Jogar broke that oath,
your life was forfeit.”
Vastyr and Leikorl bend Ostling over a crude stone block.
Queen Ivartha signals to one of the PCs to climb up onto the
rock. She says, “Strike Ostling dead, to prove our word to the
Telmori.”
This is an execution, and the PC should understand Queen
Ivartha is testing their mettle. Do they hate the Telmori enough
to take whatever action is needed?
If the PCs step up, Ostling speaks to them defiantly: “My
great-great grandfather was Sartar, the Bondmaker. He united all
the tribes. He wed the sacred queen. He built the King’s Road.
He founded Boldhome. The kingdom bears his name. My greatgrandfather was Prince Saronil, the Bridgemaker. He crushed
the Lunars in battle with a long axe. He protected the people
from dragon ghosts. He built a great tower. My grandfather was
Kostajor Wolf-Champion. He rescued Prince Jarosar, and Prince
Terasarin in battle.
“You owe me your fealty, as a member of the House of Sartar.
Kill me, and you end this line.”

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 4

The Campaign against Jogar Sog Day One
Jomes speaks: “Who will avenge your line then? Prince
Temertain?”
Everyone laughs, some even say it: “Temertain is a fool.”
Jomes motions to the PCs: “Go on.”
It is possible the PCs may balk at this point. If so, Ivartha
sends Leikorl the Shadow forward to execute Ostling. But Jomes
and Ivartha now doubt the PCs have the mettle required. Give
them a -6 Consequence of Defeat to influence either in future.
Before the PC (or Leikorl) can obey, an enormous snake
slides out of the copse onto the rear of the rock, its eyes glow an
unearthly red color and it passes through Ostling’s legs, rearing
up over him to protect him.
The snake is some thirty feet long, and two-three feet broad.
It is a constrictor, with a huge head the size of a man’s torso,
its jaw can dislocate to swallow a man whole. It has a sandybrown body with black blotches outlined in dusty green flecks.
Ernaldans recognize it as an Ooling, a marsh dwelling snake,
sacred to Asrelia that lives in marshland and often defends earth
temples, but no one has ever seen one this big!
“Ivartha and Jomes,” says the snake in sibilant tones. “I, Jogar
Sog, see you through this serpent’s eyes, for your kind left me
none of my own. However, my eyes are open to see the treachery
of your people, how you encroach on the lands the mighty Prince
Sartar gave to us. My ears are open to hear the empty words that
you speak of treaties and obligations. No son of Telmor shall die

again to keep our word to you. We will rise again to drive your
plows from the flesh of Grandmother Earth.”
The snake lurches forward easily snapping Ostling’s chains.
Ostling runs for the woods and the snake rears up to embrace
and crush his executioner. The snake will try to kill both the
PC and then Jomes and Queen Ivartha. Their households will
try to protect them from the snake. A snake this size is a Nearly
Impossible resistance, however a lot of people can attack a monster
this size so reduce the target number for the PCs with Multiple
Opponent Penalties, counting Ivartha and Jomes’ household.
Consider starting the first PC on a Very High resistance, unless
they have a lot of Hero Points to burn. In addition, make it only
a High resistance to flee the snake — the executioner might well
be advised to run instead of fight.
If the PCs do think to pursue Ostling and capture him, Jomes
and Ivartha praise them. If not then unless the PCs actively aid
his escape, Vastyr Bloody-Shirt appears dragging Ostling behind
him. Queen Ivartha and Jomes will ask the PC to repeat the
execution (or Leikorl if the PCs balked).
If they do execute Ostling, after the fighting is done Broddi
will approach the PC who did the deed. He tells them ManyBreath the clan wyter is very anxious — because they have
offended Sartar, a demigod. Broddi suggests the only thing they
can do is offer sacrifices, but killing one of a god’s kin is not likely
something the PC can shift the stigma of.

1620

93

The Campaign Against Jogar Sog Day Two

THE MARCH TO TORKAN’S VALE
Following the muster Jomes divides his forces into three parts.
One group, by his command, marches around the Dogbone
Hills to the west, to enter the mouth of Torkan’s Vale. The
second group, directly under Jomes’ command, marches around
the Dogbone Hills to the east, to enter Torkan’s Vale between
Humakt’s Hill and Jaldon’s Rest. He sends the third group,
under Queen Ivartha’s authority, through the Dogbone Hills, to
flush any Telmori into the Torkan’s Vale. The PCs are included
in Queen Ivartha’s group.
The army sets out .t. of 1620. An Army on the march
can make between 5 and 15 miles a day, depending on the size
of their baggage train, and the amount of fighting they need
to do.
Jomes’ first group, commanded by Legate Bisomen, has to
travel some 25 miles to march around the western portion of
the Dogbone Hill. They are the largest group, and include the
other vexillae and have most of the baggage train. They also
need to proceed slowly enough to that they do not outpace
Ivartha’s group who have the heaviest fighting in the center, and
thereby stop the Telmori spilling out of the trap along the sides
of the Dogbone Hills. Jomes’ plan has them reach the mouth
of Torkan’s Vale on Xt.. Jomes is aware that his troops must
endure a Wild Day, when the Telmori transform, but also wants
to maximize the power of the Lunar magicians in the group.

94

Jomes’ own group has to travel a similar distance, 25 miles,
though the country is more difficult. He leads the Border Wulf
Peltasts and troops he believes can keep a good pace moving
through hills whilst skirmishing with the enemy. He also plans
to arrive on Xt..
Ivartha’s group only has 15 miles to go, but is expected
to bear the heaviest fighting, as the Telmori are ranging
throughout the hills. They need to flush the Telmori into the
valley, where Jomes’ pincer movement will crush them, so their
line needs to avoid gaps and holes where their Telmori could
dodge the encirclement and bubble out behind Jomes’ lines.
Jomes expects them to make 5 miles a day, a lot of stopping
and starting to ensure their line is tight, and again reach the
valley on Xt..
Torkan’s Vale is some 15 miles long, it will take Bisomen’s
group two days to move from the mouth to Wolf Stand,
sweeping the Telmori before them. Jomes and Ivartha’s group
remain in position, closing avenues of escape, apart from the
Wolf Hills, until Bisomen reaches Wolf Stand where they will
join the attack.
If the PCs did not refuse Queen Ivartha, then this is an
ideal opportunity to have the PCs get closer to her. Following
the Flight from the Bat, and Ostling’s execution she regards
them as “people I can trust.” Allow them to interact with her
household. They may even encounter Ivartha talking to the

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 4

The Campaign against Jogar Sog Day Three

Queen Ivartha moves her forces in a broad line running along
the Dogbone Hills, to drive the Telmori out of the hills.
Life for a soldier on campaign is long periods of boredom
where nothing happens, privation camping in the field,
confusion as rumor of incidents filter along the line but nothing
seems to be happening where you are, punctuated by moments
of action. Try to represent this by mixing violent encounters
with the Telmori alongside mundane struggles against life on
campaign.

troops to escort the mule trains moving back and forth behind
the front line of her advance. The mule train is vulnerable to
attacks by Sartarite rebels, keen that the Telmori deal Jomes
a defeat.
The rebels here are from the Storm Rams. Venharl wants
Jomes driven from Wulfsland; to those who question the threat
posed by Jogar Sog, Venharl simply smiles and says: “We must
trust those Telmori loyal to Sartar will deal with him in time. For
now we need to deliver Jomes a bloody nose.”
This might lead to the PCs, who would normally be
sympathetic to the rebellion, forced to choose between fighting
off the rebels to assure supplies to Jomes’ army, and aiding the
sabotage themselves. They may even know or recognize some of
the Storm Rams who are raiding the caravan.

Ambush

Enemy Mine

Telmori braves ambush the PCs as they move through a gully
in the hills. This encounter is particularly likely for groups
scouting ahead of the main column. The Telmori outnumber the
PCs’ group and they rain down javelins, using the advantage of
height. The PCs need to fight their way out.

Jomes’ mercenaries come from across the area and may include
enemies of the PCs such as Emerald Sword or Two-Pines
clansmen, rivals such as Dolutha clansmen, or people to whom
the PCs are ideologically opposed such as serving or former
Lunar soldiers. Throw some or all of these into the group of
warriors the PCs are with to create conflict. Personal enemies,
such as members of the Emerald Sword clan who took part
in The Burning of Lhankpentos the Blind are especially good at
creating this kind of conflict.

Blue Ghost in her command tent — and the Blue Ghost may
even acknowledge the PCs if they prove themselves, such as by
saving Ivartha’s life.
The Dogbone Hills

Bloody Rebels

Supplies to the troops come by means of mule trains. The
caravans have to be guarded and Ivartha uses her ordinary

1620

95

You can also lead into future conflict by introducing people
who the Red Cow will later feud with such as members of the
Two-Pine clan. Friendships formed now will be tested by the
feud later.
Orlmarl the Charioteer is assigned to the PCs’ warband. A
Wind Lord, Orlmarl regards himself as the leader of the group. A
braggart, he is always boasting about what he has done and what
he will do. He is also a bully and tries to push the PCs around
continually, mocking their achievements and abilities, seizing on
any of their failures to belittle them. Orlmarl orders the PCs
about, often giving them the worst duty — ‘dig those latrines,
chop firewood, and carry water.’ He is also more than willing to
fight with anyone to prove his dominance of the warband. He
may beat up NPCs who resist him as an example to the PCs of
what awaits them if they cross him. (Orlmarl reappears in 1622,
and any bad feelings the PCs develop here may influence how
the Three New Stars heroquest plays out.)
Estavia GoldEyes is assigned to the PCs’ unit for magical
support; a small bodyguard of four Arrowstone cavalrymen
accompanying her. The cavalrymen are unhappy in the wooded
hills, but Estavia is keen to kill Telmori.
She will preach to those she accompanies, but often in an
informal way, telling stories of her old life, and how the Red
Goddess liberated her. The PCs may or may not respond well
to having a Lunar priestess in their midst, but challenge these
assumptions by having her assist them in combat with the
Telmori with her magic. Can the enemy of my enemy be so bad?

Wild Day

The Telmori attack the main body of Queen Ivartha’s forces on
Kt.. Queen Ivartha’s forces are expecting an attack on Wild
Day, when the Telmori transform. Word has passed down the
line: “When Wild Day comes, the Telmori will try to break out.
Be ready! Iron weapons and magic.”
The onslaught comes at dusk, just after the transformation.
They come as a massed pack of wolves and werewolves, howling
through the trees. They have little tactics, just hatred, and they
boil out of the woods to assault the PCs’ group. Their goal is
to break through Ivartha’s line, and then encircle pockets of
Ivartha’s troops and cut them down, or just escape the trap.
In the main ranks, those without strong magic or iron
may panic, fearing their impotence against the wolfmen. The
Queen’s Household will need to be everywhere to prevent
casualties and they can’t be. As men and women break from
the line and run, the wolves pursue their routing enemies and
kill them.
Whether this is about survival or killing depends on the
abilities of your PCs. For those with weak magic then this
becomes about staying alive, by co-operating and not panicking.
For those with better magic this becomes about protecting the
main force, driving off the wolfmen, and ensuring that they do
not break through the line.
After this, the pressure on Ivartha’s forces ease, as the Telmori
retreat before them to Torkan’s Vale.
Betrayal

Wet and Miserable

For two days it rains. The ground turns to mud; everyone is wet
through and has little opportunity to get dry. In the wet weather
heavy packs cut into the PCs’ shoulders leaving sores, and their
feet are blistered in their boots. It proves impossible to get a fire
going at night, so no one has a hot meal. Everyone moans and
everyone is miserable. Morale amidst the militia is falling and a
number of those present talk about deserting, heading back to
their farms instead.
Do the PCs give up? Can they persuade others not to desert
and to see it through?

Jogar tries to strike at Queen Ivartha using Leikorl the Shadow.
He sends a captive snake spirit to attack and possess Leikorl,
using his scalp to create the connection at a distance. The spirit
possesses Leikorl, and at the next opportunity he strikes out at
Queen Ivartha.
The PCs should be there when this happens, and have a
chance to be the ones who stop it (if not Vastyr saves her from
death). They might have some inkling that something is wrong.
The snake spirit possessing Leikorl struggles with speech, and
Leikorl speaks haltingly and with sibilant tones. His eyes seem
red and bloodshot too.
The PCs might overpower
Leikorl in the hope of exorcising the
possessing spirit but they will need
to find a shaman to perform the
exorcism.

TORKAN’S VALE

The Battle of Wolf Stand

96

When Jomes’ troops enter Torkan’s
Vale, the Telmori realize the main
thrust is not coming through the
Dogbone Hills, but down the
mouths of the valley. Outflanked,
Jogar Sog beings to retreat from the
Dogbone Hills toward Wolf Stand.
Queen Ivartha’s forces note the
opposition appears to melt away,
and make faster progress through
the hills.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 4

THE PIRATES OF THE CREEK
The descendants of those clans who migrated to the lowlands
south of the Creek hold an old enmity with the Ducks (Sartar,
Kingdom of Heroes p.233). The Ducks have never forgotten
the old wrong which saw them forced from their ancestral
homes along the Creek-Stream River and the humans have
never forgotten being compelled to abandon their homes
and farms in the wake of the assaults of the walking dead
from the Upland Marsh.
Following Starbrow’s Rebellion and the scapegoating of
the ducks, many Cinsina used the bounty on duck heads of
the Great Duck Hunt as an excuse to enact their revenge. The
ducks went into hiding, and the local riverfolk, encouraged
by the Empire, moved in on the Ducks shipping trade.
The Empire gave contracts between Kethaela and Dragon
Pass to its own supporters, so the ducks turned to piracy
and plundered their boats. Faced with a loss of trade, the
Empire ended the bounty on duck heads.
After the Empire’s bounty on ducks expired, some of the
Ducks, who had hidden from their persecutors, began to
return to the Creek. They began to operate the Duck Boats
(Sartar, Kingdom of Heroes p.319) once again, now competing with the human river folk who had tried to muscle
in on their monopoly along the river, often violently.
Many of the Empire’s own supporters felt betrayed
by the Empire, which had promised them the lucrative
river trade. Every so often the tension boiled over, and the
Governor announced a new Duck Hunt, forcing the ducks
to flee until it ended.

Learning to live with a price still on their heads, a few of
those ducks who turned to piracy, never returned honest
shipping when the Duck Hunt’s ended preferring to keep
raiding the river folk boats that had moved into their trade.
In 1618, the two most famous Duck pirates are:

Units scouting ahead of Jomes’ army risk being too far ahead
of their own force and being outflanked if the Telmori surge
back. PCs working in a scouting role still risk being caught in a
fight with the Telmori rearguard.
Once in Torkan’s Vale, Jomes should be an inspirational figure.
If the PCs are in real trouble then have Jomes arrive with his
household to save the day. If the troops become despondent and
everyone is deserting, have Jomes appear to steady their nerve.
If Jomes settled the feud with the Emerald Sword, contrast the
hatred many of the Red Cow have for Jomes for his judgment
against his strong leadership in the field against the Telmori.

and murder everyone they can find. This Telmori brutality ought
to be avenged.
How do the PCs feel about joining in with what may turn
out to be a massacre?

• Errol Bloodbeak. Captured by bounty hunters during
a Duck Hunt, Errol was sold into slavery. Estal Donge
purchased him (Sartar, Kingdom of Heroes p.307) to
perform as part of her ‘aviary’ and amuse her guests.
Errol led an escape, killing the guards and earning his
nickname in the process. He has hated the Empire,
and Estal Donge since. He assisted Kallyr Starbrow
and her household and she issued him with a ‘letter
of marque’ in the form of a stone cylinder, to ‘prove’
his acts further the rebellion. In truth, Bloodbeak is a
rogue who feathers his own nest not Kallyr’s.
• Brila, Queen of the Creek. Notable for her ivory white
feathers, black crest, and penchant for wearing only a
red silk girdle, Brila, and her band of black-feathered
raiders are feared along the Creek. Sensuous and mercurial, the river folk speak in whispers of the horrors
that await the hostages forced to dance for the pleasure of the Queen of the Creek. She raids riverside
villages as well as towns and has become a scourge
of humans up and down the Creek. She is infatuated
with Harrek, the White Bear, though she has never met
him, only knowing of him by reputation.

Rebel Alliance

The Storm Rams and Miki’s Mudhens continue to harry the
advancing troops of Jomes’ army. Perhaps the Storm Rams or
Miki’s Mudhens attack the PCs’ column. Fighting with the
rebels may trouble many of the PCs.
Eventually Jomes’ army is too numerous for the rebels and
they escape into the Good Place until things blow over.

Atrocities

The PCs come across the bodies of scouts, ambushed and killed
by the Telmori. Their bodies have been hung up from trees, and
flayed, perhaps whilst still alive. Flies buzz around the decaying
corpses and the sickly sweet smell of death makes some of the
warband vomit. Many of the NPCs talk darkly of the revenge
they will exact if they find Telmori themselves.
The scouts report a Telmori camp ahead. This is not just
Telmori braves, but children and elderly as well. These wolfmen
have obviously been slowed by the need to take their dependents
with them, dragging sledges with the particularly old, or carrying
their young. The NPCs in the group are keen to fall on the camp

Wolf Stand

Everyone begins to realize the final battle will come at Wolf Stand.
The Telmori gather there, trying to defend the hill long enough
to stage a break out of Jomes’ encircling forces on Wildday.
Jomes takes command of the siege and orders foraging
parties into the Dogbone Hills to cut wood for scaling ladders
and rams. He has no desire to wait for Wildday and wishes to
press home his advantage as soon as he can, before his foe can
escape. He plans his attack for the half-moon still giving Lunar
forces good magic. Jomes leads the assault on the gate, urging
forward the men with the ram, seeking to take the gates.

1620

97

Run the assault as an Extended Contest. The PCs might
fight with Jomes at the gate if they don’t mind taking orders.
Otherwise let them use ladders to scale a section of the wall,
and perhaps aid Jomes by opening the gates from the inside.
Once Jomes’ army enters the battle ends and his army turns to
slaughter. No one is spared, as Jomes is determined to teach the
Telmori a lesson.
Ideally the PCs confront and kill Jogar here, earning praise
from Jomes and Queen Ivartha. Jogar is a Very High resistance
— his fetch and wolf brother count as Secondary Contestants
in the contest. Black-Paws Helkos is also here, and will try to
join the fight with the PCs at Jogar’s side. He is a Very High
resistance. He may curse at the PCs, if he still believes they are
responsible for his father’s death.
In addition, Jogar has a bodyguard of Telmori who fight at
his side, members of the Telmori Royal Guard, equipped with
weapons and armor. They should be a High resistance in any
fight and face off with the fighters in the PC group.
If the PCs lose the contest, or win but it seems Jogar or BlackPaws will escape, Jomes kills them single-handedly. This should
be witnessed by the PCs, raising more questions about just how
the Red Cow should treat this man.
Some weeks later, all will be given places of honor at a victory
feast hosted by Ivartha in Red Cow Fort. The queen will give
Jogar’s killer an iron sword — Wolfsbane — as a gift. There are
murmurs around the hall; such a gift is almost priceless. Men
stand on their feet and cheer Ivartha’s gift.
Jomes presents Black-Paws’ killer with a fine krater — a large
vase used to mix wine and water — beautifully decorated with
scenes from the campaign, its centerpiece a scene of the PC’s
victory over Black-Paws. “Its twin is my own hall,” he tells the
PC, “so I might remember your victory that day. The gates of
Stonegate will always be open to you.”
In addition, if the PCs did not think of it, Jomes presents
them with the pelts of Black-Paws’ and Jogar’s wolf brothers,

98

turned into short cloaks, fashioned with the wolf ’s head as hood.
“These will keep you warm in many cold winters to come,”
Jomes tells them.
If the PCs killed Jogar and Black-Paws, then Queen Ivartha
has the killers raised on shields as the victorious alliance of
Lunars and Sartarites celebrates their victory.

TRIUMPH
With the Telmori forced back from Torkan’s Vale, and given a
bloody snout in the process, Jomes declares the campaign over.
He organizes a triumphal parade in Jonstown, and at the
shrine to ‘Hauberk’ Jon he pays silver for any wolf pelts his
soldiers bring back from the campaign. That night the inns of
Jonstown fill with soldiers, drinking, gambling, or whoring away
a portion of their wages, before returning to their homes.

PLAY OF THE GAME
Try to emphasize the brutal nature of fighting in the Dogbone
Hills. The terrain, wooded hills, makes sight lines short, and an
enemy ambush or camp can lie just through the next patch of
woodland or over the next hill. Every step is a hard one in cost
of blood and courage.
This episode will be dull if you just make it one fight after
another. Focus as much on tensions amongst Jomes’ army as
much as the actual fighting. The presence of NPCs in the group
helps to create dramatic tension, so be sure not to isolate the PCs.
Join the PCs up with NPCs who they would normally struggle
to co-operate with (see Enemy Mine). Play on the distrust and
tension within the group.
With Jogar Sog and many of their youths dead, the Telmori
don’t have the braves or the desire to continue threatening the
Sartarite tribes. Although the clans carry on having trouble
with roving bachelor packs, the threat the Telmori posed to the
Jonstown Confederation has ended, for now.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 4

• Chapter 5 •

1621-1622
CONFLICTS
ORLANTH IS DEAD
In 1621, a major historical event, thought by many later scholars
to begin the Hero Wars occurs — the Death of Orlanth. The
episodes here focus on the aftermath of that event, the Great
Winter, and the PCs’ attempts to save the Red Cow clan.
Killing Orlanth

Working under the direction of Tatius the Bright, the Lunar
Empire has completed a major ritual triggering huge magical
effects. When Whitewall fell, the god Orlanth was fettered in
the Underworld. Everywhere within a radius of 250 miles the
wind stops and goes to dead air, the same area that the New
Lunar Temple would defend. This area includes all of Dragon
Pass, Prax, Heortland, and Esrolia, and parts of Aggar and Holay.
Outside of that circle, however, a secondary effect occurs.
All of Dragon Pass became an ‘air hole,’ and all the nearby air
moves in to fill it. At the edge of that area, the wind simply fades
into nothing, coming in from the outside and just as quickly but
gently disappearing. It goes away. It goes nowhere, just away.
This area becomes known as the Windstop.
Within a couple of weeks, most of the winds in Glorantha
are affected and blow steadily (more or less) toward it. Many
contemporary chronicles record the event.
A secondary, and perhaps even more significant effect occurs,
unanticipated by the Lunars. Within the area of the Windstop,
the Earth Goddess Ernalda goes to sleep and does not awaken.
Children are not born, seeds do not sprout, fruit does not grow,
and, within the radius of dead air, the winter does not end.
After the fall of Whitewall, the priests and god-talkers cannot
contact Orlanth or Ernalda, and all attempts by members of
those cults to work magic with their Rune affinities fails.
The Red Emperor declares an Extra Full Moon Year
throughout the Heartland of the Empire to celebrate the defeat
of the ‘Rebel Gods.’ All full citizens are granted a year without
taxes, and commoners are invited to join in the official revels held
in all the temples of the Seven Mothers and the Red Goddess.
No such benefits are granted to the provinces, nor are their
celebrations so grandiose.
Freeing Orlanth and Waking Ernalda

Orlanth and Ernalda do not restore the world during Sacred
Time, meaning winter does not end within the radius of the
Windstop. This is the Great Winter, which Orlanthi prophecy
claim heralds the doom of the world! For two seasons spring does

not come. It just gets colder and colder until everything seems
either frozen or dead. Many die in the struggle to simply survive.
On Clayday of Disorder Weak of Earth Season 1622, the
Heortlings, under High King Broyan and Kallyr Starbrow, stage
a desperate stand against the Empire at the Battle of the Auroch
Hills. They triumph — through courage and inspiration they
surprise and defeat their enemies. Those Orlanth cultists who
fight at his side, the New Breathers, can work magic again.
Orlanth is still chained, but his breath can be felt.
At the same time, the PCs travel to the Other Side and
return three dead stars to Orlanth’s Ring. These new stars mean
members of Orlanth’s cult can work magic again — although
their use of Orlanth’s Air Rune is limited to the domains of the
resurrected stars and require the rites of the Three New Stars for
now.
In Esrolia, Queen Hendira of Nochet is pulled from power
by a coup, and the Lunar Temple in Nochet destroyed. The
struggling pro-Lunar Red Earth Alliance is attacked and their
factions thrown out of many cities. Spring returns.
Ernalda still sleeps, but her love warms the world.

SURVIVING THE GREAT WINTER
We recommend you begin play in media res in Sea Season 1622
with the episode Orlanth is Dead. The players cannot affect many
of the events in 1621, and they are best occurring off-stage. Focus
not on the run-up to the killing of Orlanth, but its aftermath.
This is a survival story. The question is not can you stop the
disaster, but how do you survive it?
Because you may want to use flashback scenes to the disaster
— if the players wanted to describe the PCs’ action during the
crisis, or simply experience the event — we provide an outline
for 1621, in the usual format.
Some groups might wish to play out the events of 1621,
being uncomfortable with skipping time. We provide enough
information to play that out, if you prefer, but no episodes set in
that time period. Narrators may also have episodes of their own
that they wish to run following the events of 1618-1620. We
suggest running those in 1621 before the Great Winter, which
occurs at the end of 1621 anyway.
During the Great Winter, the clan shelters in Red Cow Fort.
Clanfolk began filtering in after the failure of the tribe’s One
Day ceremony at Larnste’s Table and they keep arriving during
the Sacred Time.
By Sea Season 1622, as winter stores in village root cellars
became exhausted, most of the clan have taken shelter within
the fort’s walls. The fort has great storage pits holding surplus
grain and barley from fat years; the clan lives on ale and porridge.

1621-1622

99

The Extent of the Windstop
Any place where people can survive becomes a beacon of
hope; refugees soon begin flocking into Red Cow Fort. The
numbers threaten to overwhelm the Red Cow. Telmori raiders,
Hollri ice demons, and Imperial soldiers threaten anyone left
outside, and even those inside.
The clan seems doomed until Kallyr Starbrow offers to help
them get aid from the stars!

THE RING
The Helerings, particularly the Kerenelling bloodline, still
have magic and Borngold Many-Brothers leads Kernalda
Other-Ways and Aethelric the Girl in defending of the clan.

100

Voranga Many-Sorrows does her best to heal, cleansing
wounds, disease, and cold injuries where she can. They are
particularly active against the Telmori threat, and on each
Wildday, they gather those with magic to protect Red Cow
Fort and the refugees against hungry Telmori bands. People
say, “Staunch as Heler” a lot when referring to Borngold.
However, even the Helerings are limited by the lack of rain
clouds in the sky for their best magic. Borngold has sympathy
with Broddi’s willingness to allow in refugees, but he criticizes
the decision to retreat to Red Cow Fort, “Abandoning our
homes and livestock to the Telmori.”
Frekor Deep-Woods continues to hunt for food in Stagland,
despite the danger from the Telmori; he brings in meat to the
starving clan, and the hunters are welcome though their numbers
thin from clashes with the wolfmen.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

The farmers rage against Farandar Orendalsson — he has
not done enough to save their livestock, there will be no Stealing
of the Giant’s Cows this year and no Red Cows will be born —
but he seems more interested in helping the rebels. Farandar does
indeed spend more time with Orstalor and Venharl and even
visits King Ranulf in Lorthing Vale — he is determined to fight
the Empire. Farandar focuses not on the refugees but on Lunar
converts saying “They got into bed with the Empire, let them lie
in it now. We should not allow converts in the fort, or feed them
from the clan’s stores, even those who Broddi still calls kin.” The
clan farmers call for his replacement.
Kullina the Fat speaks in his defense, pointing to the Great
Winter as the “true face of the Empire.” She works against the
Lunar missionaries who try to win converts from the clan;
scrimping and scraping what resources she can to prevent clan
folk seeking the support of the Seven Mothers. She will be most
bitter at Ustarna Try-Much’s conversion.
Darna Longcoat has organized lavish ceremonies to contact
Ernalda, only to discover she sleeps. Now she tries to help by
dispensing to everyone from the clan’s stores and even from her
own personal wealth. Wherever she gives aid to the needy, the
message is always the same, “Return the gift when you can.”
She exploits the situation to build a web of political support —
which she will try to wield after the crisis. She goads the young
men into raiding the Dolutha — “pick over their abandoned
steads for food for the table” — and later to raid the Emerald
Sword and Two-Pine clans.
Broddi Strong-Kin and Griselda Gray-Tresses do not
approve of these raids, but Darna whispers “violence is always
an option.” Instead Broddi and Griselda try to save as many as
they can, both from the Red Cow and neighboring clans. They
believe they should act as the Vingkot did in the Darkness,
welcoming refugees.
Of the leading thanes, Kangharl Black-Brow cares about the
Red Cow folk above others. He talks of admitting ‘good friends’
from the Blueberry, Frithan, and Underwillow, but dismissing
the others as “beggars all, who will crowd out our homes and
starve the Red Cow, yet never give us anything in return for such
a priceless gift.” He calls for Broddi to raid “the Lunar loving
Dinacoli, and feed hungry mouths with their bread.”

WHERE IS QUEEN IVARTHA?
The clans turn to the tribe and in particular Queen Ivartha in this
time of trouble. Queen Ivartha epitomizes Cinsin the Red during
the dark years struggling against the Telmori. She moves from clan
center to clan center, bringing what help she can. She even goes to
Dangerford, although Ivar Quickstep despises her presence.
Her household helps the clans to patrol. They fight off
monsters and heal where they can. Queen Ivartha looks tired
and haggard, sleeping little, always running here and there. Her
biggest concern is the Telmori and the Wolfskinners work to
keep them from overrunning the Cinsina.
Use Queen Ivartha as a deus ex machina plot device to pull
the PCs out of trouble when they get in over their heads. For
example, if they are about to be overrun by Telmori or Hollri,
have Ivartha’s household show up to drive them off. The other
use is to give the PCs tasks from the Queen. “Fetch this, kill

that, and help these people.” Whilst at first the PCs may feel like
servants, this allows them to get closer to Queen Ivartha and earn
her friendship and respect. If the PCs are close to Ivartha from
events in 1620 she may even ask them to join her traveling from
refuge to refuge.

EVENTS
SEA SEASON
The Siege of Whitewall

Despite General Fazzur Wideread’s success pursuing military
objectives in the Holy Country, his planned invasion of Esrolia
is put on hold, because Tatius the Bright needs troops for the
siege of Whitewall. General Fazzur takes a small force into
Esrolia anyway, leaving Tatius in charge of the siege. Whitewall
is important to Tatius, because when he captures it he fulfills his
criteria for killing Orlanth, an important part of the ritual for his
Reaching Moon Temple.
A Giant’s Cradle comes down the River of Cradles (in Prax)
for the first time in hundreds of years. The Empire tries to seize
it, to take its magical secrets for themselves. A band of rebels led
by Argrath free the Cradle and successfully steer it out into the
Homeward Ocean.

FIRE SEASON
Fazzur Wideread leads his picked band of specialists to assist
Queen Hendira and her family, who are trying to establish a full
Lunar temple in the city of Nochet. With this assistance, several
blocks of tenements are burned, and the foundations laid to start
a grand building.

DARK SEASON
On gto 1621, Tatius the Bright launches his final assault on

Whitewall. The Crater Makers hurl meteors from the moon;
they destroy the Orlanth Temple. The Seven of Vistur build
seven long ramps from the ground to the wall; Imperial hoplites,
glowing with protective magic, lead the attack up the ramps.
However, there are almost no defenders there. The Lunar
troops find only a handful of corpses. None of the rebel leaders,
including High King Broyan and Kallyr Starbrow, who were at
Whitewall, are found.
Suddenly, the wind stops. No wind blows, and the few clouds
in the sky stand absolutely still and do not move or change shape.
No magic works if it comes from Orlanth or Ernalda. No
wyter speaks, no Umbroli wind blows. Divination receives no
answers except death, doom, and the absence of the deities.
Today, and over the next few days, everyone notices it is
harder for them to do anything without being winded. This
affects all the worshippers of the Orlanth and Ernalda pantheon.
Members of the Sardaling bloodline, who have not converted
to the Moon travel to the mission at Red Cow Fort, keen to
convert and embrace the protection of the Seven Mothers.
Rites fail! The Lunar Empire sends its troops to enforce the
prohibition on the worship of Orlanth, which makes things
even harder. Nevertheless, the ceremonies are performed.
Nothing happens.

1621-1622

101

Deserted by their gods the downtrodden cottars and
stickpickers of the tribes begin to convert to the Lunar religion.
The followers of the Seven Mothers point out to their kin
“Orlanth is Dead.” Many convert.
On Ancestor Day, The Ancestors arrive and, as they have in
recent years, speak only of troubles and dark times ahead. The
Ancestors might state they experienced something similar during
the Great Darkness, when Orlanth was questing and Ernalda was
asleep. One by one, almost every other deity went away. It ended
when Heort performed ‘I Fought, We Won.’ Then the Sun rose.

STORM SEASON
Storm Season starts, but still no winds blow from the north or
anywhere else, and no snow clouds gather overhead.
Jomes issues orders to withdraw his troops into the forts and
cities. In Red Cow Fort the drawbridge to the Lunar citadel is
raised up and few visitors admitted. The Empire appears to be
preparing for a long siege.
Refugees flock into Red Cow Fort, disturbed by recent
events. They make camp in the bothies. Every day more-andmore of them pilgrimage to the Lunar garrison. They sit in front
of the ditch and walls, on the snow, begging for help. Broddi
sends his people to round them up and offer them food from his
own stores. Mahome’s Fire Alynx no longer keeps the fire in the
Great Hall burning.
The cold worsens. All water freezes, even inside houses with
hearth fires. Huge amounts of wood are needed to make any
warmth, and logging parties go out in the cold to collect more.
Soon the bothies in Red Cow Fort are overflowing with
the dispossessed. Across Cinsina lands, many poor folk simply
abandon their farms, and head into Jonstown to seek the
protection of the Empire and the Seven Mothers cult.
Amongst the Cinsina everyone wants a little bit of magic to
help them fight the Telmori; everyone worries ‘without magic,
how do you kill werewolves?’ On Good Winds Day, the Kolating
are able to perform the so-called ‘Twenty-One Charm.’ During
the rites the shamans reach into bags and pull out special fetishes.
Everyone who can takes one, which has some kind of non-wind
spirit stashed inside in case they need a last stroke of luck. The
charms are relatively weak; the best Kolatings are at their own
private rites, busy defending from invisible assaults.
Queen Ivartha organizes a gathering at Larnste’s Table on
Orlanth’s High Holy Day. Everyone who can make it tries to do
so, despite the cold weather and the Imperial patrols.
Nothing happens. The rite fails. The sacrificial fires abruptly
go out; they are stone cold, and cannot be relit. The meat is all

CAN I HAVE 21 CHARM?

burnt or like jelly, spoiled by cold. Runes are cast, and the sticks
break when they hit the floor. Priests read the livers of the beasts,
and they are diseased. People who normally hear the gods go deaf.
A dead animal, gutted and spitted over the cold fire, bleats
and staggers off the spit before men hack it to bits. Its blood
flows and sizzles upon the ground and the smell of rotten flesh
fills the sacred grounds. Men weep, women fall senseless, and old
people slump dead to the ground.
That night the dark gets darker, as if the stars are being
pinched out. The cold grows hard and thick, so that all the earth
freezes solid and more than solid, so heavy that a sheen of ice
coats everything.
Those who did not admit it before hear it again, and cannot
deny it: “Orlanth is dead.”
All work is simply dropped, left in place as whole clans
abandon their steads and head for the hills. Some leave slowly,
gathering herds and blankets. Others just go. In the Red Cow
clan, everyone flocks to Red Cow Fort. Broddi sends out the
message “Come to Red Cow Fort now, bring only what you can
carry. Seek refuge from the Great Winter.”
The day after One Day, messengers set out from Bullflood to
the south. They skate along the rivers, or tramp on snowshoes.
They stop only briefly, spreading a message of hope from the
exiled High King Broyan, “This is the Great Darkness, prepare
for the fight.”

1622
SEA SEASON
Winter food stores dwindle and many grow hungry. Griselda
has prepared for this, filling the Red Cow’s great storage pits
with food for just such a disaster. She has put aside enough for
a year. New refugees keep arriving from clans that did not put
aside enough food, and the stores diminish. Broddi points to the
ancestors’ actions and welcomes them inside.
The Empire sends bands of soldiers and magicians and
warriors into the hills to disrupt the bold and the desperate.
The Telmori have little or nothing stored for hard times,
and when winter fails to dissipate become hungry. Desperate
starving bands increasingly raid their neighbors — at first they
are opportunistic, looting abandoned steads, but soon they need
to attack refugees, and places of safety.
Fazzur Wideread is relieved as Governor of Dragon Pass. Tatius
the Bright becomes the new governor and tells Jomes to ‘keep
order’ in Sartar but gives him no additional resources to do so.
This is the starting point for your own game. The episode,
The Great Winter, covers the trials of the Red Cow clan as they
seek to survive through this period.

FIRE SEASON
Give a Directed Improvement to any player who loses
their magic of a ‘twenty-one’ charm under their Air or
Earth Rune. The exact charm is up to negotiation by the
PC and the narrator, but look at the Cult of Kolat (see
Sartar Companion page 269) for inspiration if you need
to. Emphasize that this is the PCs “last chance” magic.

102

Ghouls explode from the Woods of the Dead to reap the harvest
of corpses. Frozen trees make it difficult to cut firewood and
there is little to spare for funeral pyres; permafrost makes it too
difficult to dig graves in the iron hard ground. Many of the dead
lie where they fall and the ghouls have a bounteous harvest.
Minaryth Purple begins trying to acquire the secrets to reach
the Cauldron of Pieces and the Resurrection Thrones.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

Under High King Broyan, rebel bands concentrate on getting
warriors together. They move about constantly after giving out
instructions on times and places to muster. Farandar Orendalsson
and Kullina the Fat support the rebels when and where they can.
The bothies of Red Cow Fort become an important stop for
rebels as they move around the countryside.
Tatius moves most of his army to protect his newly laid temple
foundations. He sends small bands of his best warriors into the icy
lands to do as much havoc as possible. These troops are ruthless
and short tempered. They start to slaughter everyone out in the
wilds under the assumption that every one of them is a rebel.
King Ranulf raises the Windstorm banner in Fox Hollow in
Lorthing Value, and leads the Culbrea in rebellion against the
Empire, drawing forth people who are either inspired or fatalistic.
Farandar Orendalsson leads a band of Red Cow rebels south,
heeding the call from High King Broyan. Many in the clan mutter
that he and his men should have remained to protect Red Cow Fort.
On gs. 1622, the Cinsina try to return dead stars to the
sky, unfettering Orlanth’s magic, and return spring, waking
Ernalda. Kallyr Starbrow is essential to their actions; afterwards
she heads south, leading the Sartarite rebels in support of High
King Broyan. See the Three New Stars, which covers how the Red
Cow clan survives the trials of the Great Winter.

EARTH SEASON
On eje, Still Day, 1622, High King Broyan starts the Summons

of Evil at Twotop in the Auroch Hills forcing the Lunars to come
to him at a time and place of his choosing to increase the odds
of victory.
Although this is the Black Moon day, when many Lunar
magics are weak or even unusable, the Lunar commander,
General Tashkeveth knows the Orlanthi have no magic at all.
The High King reveals the Orlanthi can use the secret of
Brastalos, the ‘No Wind,’ to work magic.
The Battle of the Auroch Hills is a Lunar military catastrophe.
Broyan’s forces rout General Tashkeveth’s forces.

THE RISING OF THE CULBREA
Tatius has withdrawn troops to protect the new Temple
of the Reaching Moon. The garrisons of Sartar’s cities
and towns become depleted and can do little more than
patrol their immediate vicinity and keep the roads open.
For some, like the Culbrea, this means there is a little or
no Lunar presence on their land in 1622. Tatius does not
care — the Great Winter will kill most of them, or when
he completes his Reaching Moon Temple he will easily
be able to mop up the rest.
Kallyr Starbrow and other rebel leaders have been
guesting with the Culbrea during the Great Winter. They
persuade Ranulf, despite his fears for hostages held by
the Empire — including his own daughter — to withdraw
the Culbrea’s recognition of Prince Temertain as the Prince
of Sartar. This was a key stipulation of the peace treaty
following the 1613 rebellion, and the Culbrea are now in
violation of that agreement. The Culbrea moots then kill
Lunar missionaries and outlaw Lunar sympathizers — the
first word the Empire gets of their rebellion is when some
of these turncoats stumble into Jonstown and Boldhome.
There is little Jomes or other local commanders can do,
given the conditions.
Rebels flock to Lorthing Vale, the Culbrea home, seeking
safety from the Empire, joining Kallyr and her followers.
By this point, rumors will undoubtedly reach the Red Cow
of the Culbrea uprising.
With Lunar troops in Jonstown, Dangerford, Red
Cow and Wulfsland, Queen Ivartha is quick to squash
any suggestion that the Cinsina rise up too — she is far
more worried about the threat of starving Telmori, and
the explosion of ghouls from the Woods of the Dead, to
think of rebellion against the Empire.

1621-1622

103

In Esrolia, Queen Hendira of Nochet is pulled from power
by a coup, and the Lunar Temple in Nochet destroyed. The
struggling pro-Lunar Red Earth Alliance is attacked and their
factions expelled from many of the cities. The land awakens, and
the winter ends.
Farandar Orendalsson and his followers return from the
Battle of the Auroch Hills to Red Cow Fort as New Breathers.
They choose not to join the Three New Stars Rites — bonded
together by their experience.
The PCs bring the Three New Stars back into the sky and
unfetter Orlanth for those who use their rites.
Although spring returns, nature is in turmoil. The weather
is turbulent, as it tries to rebalance. Sometimes it seems to be
spring, summer, and autumn all in the same day. Some crops
grow dramatically only to die off in a sudden frost, others
flourish too fast and rot before the harvest.
By Clayday of Fertility Week of Earth Season the seasons
returns to normal, but by then it is too late to grow crops or
make hay.

DARK SEASON
Dark Season comes with a sense of foreboding. There is not
enough hay to feed the animals, and many more must be
slaughtered. At least there will be salted meat to feed the people
of the Red Cow, though there is little barley for beer, bread,
or porridge. Those clans that have few animals to slaughter
starve. The Underwillow slaughter their few remaining sheep,
and become beggars from their kin in other clans, starving
and poor.

REGAINING MAGIC
THE NEW BREATHERS
Participants in the Battle of the Auroch Hills have freed
Orlanth for their personal use. They may be unaware
of exactly what they have done, and many take time to
discover their magic remains with them, and that they
can give it for a few moments to others by giving them
some of their breath. The New Breathers’ actions do not
free Orlanth for anyone else though.

THREE NEW STARS
Those who participate in the Three New Stars Rites can
work magic with Orlanth’s rune affinities. The scope of
the magic is limited and defined by the stars the PCs
returned to the sky from the Other Side — but this is
better than nothing.

ERNALDAN MAGIC
Following the return of spring, Ernaldans have access to
magic once again. Their ceremonies succeed and their
magic works. The Seven Mothers missionaries say that
it was always the Goddess’ intent that Ernalda should
return, once Orlanth had been defeated, and she should
seek a new husband now.

104

For the survivors the hunger leaves them prone to illness and
with so many animals slaughtered it will take years for the clans
to recover.
Raiding the neighbors may be one way to ensure survival and
conflict between the clans is unusually fierce for winter.
Queen Ivartha asks the PCs to travel amongst the Cinsina
clans to spread word of the Three New Stars Rites. This is difficult
in winter, and the Queen and her household accompany them
from clan to clan.
The Red Cow priests, Ashart Dusk-Eater and Broddi StrongKin, will seek to work with the Three New Stars; they respect
the PCs as the participants of the heroquest, but seek to use their
knowledge of ceremony and ritual to gain influence within the
Three New Stars. Verlain Never-Doubt will become a regular visitor
to the PCs as well, often meeting with Ashart and Broddi. Ashart
tries not to say it, but the message that the tribe supported the quest
and expects to be allowed to direct its benefits should be clear.

STORM SEASON
As the weather breaks there is some optimism for the New Year. Raids
increase in frequency though as struggling clans look to a military
solution to fill their bellies. Rebel leaders try to negotiate between the
clans, preventing them from turning on each other, but most do
that by encouraging loyal or neutral clans to raid Lunar sympathizing
clans. Salissa Three-Husbands (pushed by Darna Longcoat) goads
the Red Cow to raid the Emerald Sword and Dolutha.
Orngerin Thundercape approaches the PCs and tells them
the rebels want to make a big effort on One Day to spread the
Three New Stars Rites. Orngerin tells the PCs the Jonstown
Confederation plans to support the rites in a ceremony at
Larnste’s Table. Many people from across Sartar attend, to obtain
access to Orlanth. The PCs, as leaders of the Three New Stars,
finds themselves increasingly important, moving in the circles of
kings, queens, and priests.
The PCs meet Kallai Hairy-Breeks; like Verlain he expects
the Cinsina’s role in the heroquest to mean he has a voice in the
direction of the Three New Stars. Verlain will take him ‘into the
fold’ without asking permission from the PCs. Again the PCs
should be realizing politics around their new band is growing.
Among Lunar sympathizer clans, the Great Winter pushes
many previously neutral folk to side with the rebellion. The cost
of alliance with the Empire is seen as too high when people start
counting the corpses. Across Sartar one in six people outside the
cities die before the worst of the crisis is over. Nearly everyone
has lost kin. The Red Cow loses two hundred and fifty people
to cold, starvation, and violence. Many of them are the old and
young. Other clans suffer a similar death toll.
“The Hero Wars are here,” people say and talk of an old
prophecy of Dragon Pass attributed to Cragspider:
A mighty clash of heroes comes in the Last Days.
Kitchen-boy, poetess, warlord, lost soul,
Three-pronged king, and dragonlord,
Battle for the fate of the universe.
The globe is dim, I cannot see who wins,
But the battles are fierce and glorious,
Hardly shall any inhabitant of the Pass escape.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

RESOURCES, BACKGROUND EVENTS,
AND CRISIS TESTS
The Great Winter has a terrible effect on the Red Cow’s
Community Resources. We recommend that if you do not
normally put the clan record sheet in front of the players for a
session, you should do so for these episodes.
Make sure the players understand the mechanics of
Community Resources; particularly how these temporary
changes from Background Events become Changes to Resource
ratings. For the events here, remove the cap of two permanent
point changes per season.
Begin by penalizing the clan’s Resources to reflect events
prior to play in Sea Season. At the beginning of each subsequent
season, events further impact Resources. Don’t use Resource
Fluctuation during 1622; instead refer to the season-by-season
guide below for changes to the clan’s Resources reflecting dayto-day events.
For example, at the beginning of Sea Season the Red Cow
suffer a penalty of –W to their Wealth; without intervention,
this becomes a permanent change of -6 at the end of Sea Season.
Resource Crises are one way to drive the scenes you play out
in the Great Winter. See which Resources come under pressure
and run appropriate scenes.
The threat of permanent changes to Resources should spur
PCs to action; encourage them to instigate or take part in actions
improving the clan’s Resource ratings.
If any Resource ratings fall to zero or below, the clan is in
danger of disintegrating. If at the end of a season a Resource
falls permanently below zero, the clan disintegrates. The
future direction of the campaign: attempting to found a new
clan, or temporary settlement of the now vacated lands by
Lunar allies such as the Wulfslanders or Emerald Sword is up
to the Game Master.

We cover this event in 1623, but you can run it earlier in your
game if events dictate.
In Fire Season, the increasing number of people flooding in to
Red Cow Fort leads to overcrowded cramped conditions where
tensions run high, spilling over into conflict. Deplete the clan’s
morale by -12. Most likely, the clan is below zero for a second
successive season, and conversions and defections continue. In
addition, trouble flares in Red Cow Fort, as refugees and clan
folk come to blows.
If the Three New Stars heroquest succeeds, those who join the
Three New Stars Rites find hope in the darkness: boost the clan’s
morale by the heroquest’s victory.
If the PCs fail, the Great Winter still ends through Kong
Broyan’s actions, but the Cinsina are too broken by the failed
quest to gain from the return of spring. It is likely the clan’s
morale will collapse below zero permanently. The clan loses faith
in its leaders and falls apart.

WAR
In Sea Season, the clan’s patrols come into conflict with Imperial
troops, who are foraging or just hunting for rebels. The fights
often result in casualties amongst the clan’s thanes and warriors.
The Imperial troops kill some and others are left nursing wounds.
Deplete the clan’s War Resource rating by -6.
By Fire Season, the patrols are fighting for control of the clan
lands with Telmori, Ghouls, and Hollri. The Imperial troops
continue to harass and kill survivors too. The clan’s patrols
continue to suffer casualties. Deplete the clan’s War Resource
rating by -6.

PEACE

In Sea Season, the Red Cow abandonment of its villages and
retreat to Red Cow Fort results in a significant, if hopefully
temporary, loss of wealth for the Red Cow. Penalize the Red
Cow’s wealth by -W.
In Fire Season, the arrival of refugees from other clans,
overwhelms the clan’s limited resources; deplete the Red Cow’s
wealth by -W.
In Storm Season, Salissa Three-Husbands goads the clan into
raiding the neighbors; her objective is to restore some of the
clan’s lost wealth i.e. bolster the clan’s Wealth Resource.

Chief Broddi welcomes refugees to Red Cow Fort in 1621. Many
members of the clan mutter privately about his decision, but
Broddi takes the clan’s welcoming of refugees in the Vingkotling
Age as his guide. Many look to the Red Cow for leadership,
perceiving nobility within their generosity. The Red Cow’s Peace
Resource rating gains from his inclusive approach. Increase the
Red Cow’s Peace Resource by +6.
In Fire Season if the Red Cow continue to welcome refugees
their Peace Resource rating gains a +6 for that season (with a
possible permanent raise at the end of the season).
Note that the changes to Peace and Morale work in opposition
here. While Broddi continues to welcome refugees his status as
a statesman increases, as does his influence amongst other clans,
but his status within his own clan falls. His actions lead to his
downfall in 1623.

MORALE

MAGIC

In Sea Season, the Death of Orlanth undermines the morale
of the whole clan — their gods are unreachable and cannot
offer them protection. Deplete the clan’s morale by -12. The
lack of any support from the gods undermines the clan’s
morale and the bonds of the community are strained. Note
that unless the PCs bolster morale this will be zero. Reflect
this in conversions to the Seven Mothers, and people simply
leaving the clan. Ultimately this collapse in support becomes
too great and the Red Cow decides to elect a new chieftain.

In Sea Season, the loss of all Orlanth and Ernalda magic along
with contact with the clan wyter Many-Breath badly weakens
the clan’s Magic Resource rating. Drop the Red Cow’s Magic
Resource rating by -W. This will put the Red Cow’s Magic
Resource rating below zero. Reflect this in increased disease
and illness amongst the refuges crowded into Red Cow Fort;
the gods’ protection has failed. Also, reflect this in increased
conversions to the Seven Mothers, as people search for usable
magic.

WEALTH

1621-1622

105

The situation persists in Fire Season; deplete the Red Cow’s
Magic Resource rating by -W.
Successfully performing the Three New Stars heroquest
bolsters this Resource (as well as the Morale Resource). Increase
the clan’s magic according to the PCs’ Benefits of Victory.

SETTING CHANGES
ORLANTH AND ERNALDA MAGIC FOLLOWING
ORLANTH IS DEAD
No magic works if it comes from Orlanth, Ernalda, or their subcults. None: feats and affinities do not work. The clan and tribal
wyter cannot be contacted — Broddi is unable to talk to ManyBreaths any longer.
For clarity, the following deities continue to have magic: Ana
Gor, Chalana Arroy, Donandar, Elmal, Engizi, Eurmal, Heler,
Humakt, Issaries, Kero Fin, Kolat (but no wind spirits), Lhankor
Mhy, Maran, Odayla, Redalda, Urox, and Yinkin.
The Red Cow will rely on the Heler worshippers to provide
much of the clan’s magical defense and healing. The Dolutha rely
on their Elmali, further strengthening Ivar Quickstep’s hand.

ORLANTH IS DEAD
BEGIN WITH
Nearly everyone is crowded into Red Cow Fort. Chief Broddi
issued the call “Come to Red Cow Fort for safety. This is the
Great Darkness, we must prepare for the fight. Bring with you
only what food and personal possessions you can carry. Bring
with you only your finest breeding pairs of cows, sheep, alynxes,
and pigs. Come quickly because this will only become worse.”

CAST
Ashart Dusk-Eater, Broddi Strong-Kin, Jaranil the Thunder,
Kernalda Other-Ways, Ustarna Try-Much

SITUATION
The steads in Red Cow Fort are crammed full to overflowing as
people bed down amidst their kin and stable their best breeding
animals. The bothies are packed with people seeking shelter from
the cold. The chieftain’s hall and Thunder Brother’s Barracks are
crammed full with refugees. There is insufficient room. Tents
fill the spaces between bothies and walls; the poorly sheltered
inhabitants shiver by great fires.
Darna Longcoat has ordered the storage pits opened and
surprisingly Griselda Gray-Tresses agreed without dispute. The
clan has food to feed its hungry mouths, but Griselda and the
grandmothers ration it fiercely. They make a daily porridge.
In the center of Red Cow Fort, the Lunar mission has raised
its drawbridge. Smoke and laughter come from within. Guards
watch from atop the gate towers and the commander’s tower.
Every so often signal mirrors on the towers flash. Sometimes

106

ORLANTH’S RING
During this period, Orlanth’s Ring no longer appears in
the sky, making its customary journey from Stormgate
to the Pole Star. People all over Glorantha notice this
phenomenon, and even if they are far from Dragon Pass,
this change in the sky is understood to be a portent of
doom and causes great consternation.

a heavily armed party rides out, pushing its way through the
assembled refugees, riding them down if in the way. At other
times, guards rush out to clear a path with spear butts (and points
if needed) for an incoming patrol. It is clear that the Lunar Army
still functions but they do not stop to help the starving locals.
Conditions are permanent winter. There is no wind and little
cloud cover, which makes conditions similar to a Brightnight.
The temperature during the day rarely climbs above 5°F,
with temperatures at night falling to -15°F. Anyone without
proper protection develops frostbite within 15 minutes and
hypothermia within an hour. Death follows shortly after. Cold
weather clothing is essential to survive. The Heort and Danda
are frozen over, the Creek has ice floes and frozen sections. The
ground is covered in ice and snow. It is as hard as iron to dig
in due to permafrost. People and abandoned animals freeze to
death and die.

CONNECTED EPISODES
Cattle Raid, Emissaries, Patrol, War

ACT, SCENES, AND BEATS
Red Cow Fort, Death of Jaranil, We Won’t Go, Ghouls, Tax Farmers,
and The Wolf at the Door let you show the PCs the plight of
the clan and its neighbors in the Great Winter. We assume the
episode starts in Red Cow Fort and from there the scenes may
lead PCs out to any of the surrounding locations. Moon Dogs,
and Arkat’s Tax provide threats to the clan. We also provide two
small adventures The Resurrection Thrones and the Picture Door,
which provide preparation for the heroquest in the Three New
Stars episode. In Play of the Game, we suggest how to weave
them together.

RED COW FORT
In total, over a sixth of the Red Cow clan dies during the Great
Winter.
Exposure kills many; particularly the old and the young
huddled in the bothies. There is never enough fuel to keep the
hearth fires burning, or enough room for all to sit close enough
to stay warm.
Exposure is a risk to any PCs who lack adequate cold weather
protection when venturing outside during the Great Winter (see
The Horror in the Dark).
Disease kills many more. With Orlanth and Ernalda’s
protection gone, Malia’s disease spirits stalk the clans, and with

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

people’s resistance lowered by cold and hunger, many get sick and
many of those die. The bothies are home to regular outbreaks of
the Creeping Chills or Thunderlung. Without healing magic, all
anyone can do is comfort the dying — some flee to the House of
Peace in Jonstown for healing from the White Healers, but most
die on the road.
Of course, the Seven Mothers provide healing to converts,
and Estavia GoldEyes heals those who renounce the old ways
and turn to the Red Goddess. Many do.
The PCs may succumb to illness as well. The PCs should
resist with abilities indicating toughness, stamina, endurance, or
general rude health. Failure indicates the PC has become sick,
and suffers physical disability until they recover.
Hunger kills fewer, for the Red Cow has put aside barley in
its great storage pits for bad years. Many who once cursed Broddi
now bless his foresight as they eat their gruel and drink their beer.
Even so, the thanes have to be present when the food is doled out
from the pits; at times it descends into desperate scenes as people
scrabble for their rations of food. The PCs may be called upon
to manage the food distribution and face heart-breaking choices
over rationing to children and infants.
Kangharl tries to organize foraging parties to bring back “the
Red Cow’s treasure, left at the steads,” and asks the PCs to join
him. It is possible that Hollri or an Ice Crawler attacks the party
(see below) or desperate Telmori, Two-Pine, or trolls. Soon he is
calling for “raids against the Dinacoli, to feed our hungry mouths
with their salted beef and porridge,” and he tries to persuade the
PCs to mount raids on the neighboring clans.
Raiding the neighbors means you survive by consuming
their resources instead of your own, allowing you to live longer.
That’s not to mention there are things in abandoned villages just
waiting to be taken: plows, looms, pottery, and metal goods left
behind in a panic. As Red Cow Fort runs low on food Kullina
the Fat points out the Empire has food in reserve at Dangerford,
Jonstown, and Stonegate. A raid could carry off supplies that will
see folk through the winter.
See the Cattle Raid and War episodes for more on raiding.
Raiding can be used to bolster the clan’s Wealth Resource.
Of course, afterwards everyone remembers the clan who
prospered at the expense of the neighbors and despises them.
Refugees from the Blueberry, Frithan, and Underwillow
begin stumbling in to Red Cow Fort. They beg for admission,
a place by the fire, a little food. They tell dark tales of what is
happening outside. At first, everyone is welcoming to friends —
“these clans are our good friends, we should let them in.”
When it gets crowded people say: “There is not enough room
for Red Cow folk now.”
Chief Broddi reminds everyone of the ancestors and the god’s
demands of hospitality. “Our ancestors let the Cloud Folk in
and gave them a place in the clan.” Everyone remembers then
and welcomes the new people. Darna Longcoat seems keen to
personally welcome the refugees into the clan and help them
get started with generous gifts from her own store of wealth, but
people grumble about the “number of hungry mouths.”
More people come, and some of them are Goodhaven,
Dolutha, Greenhaft, Erlending, and Toena. These are members
of the tribe, and allies, but there is not enough room.

Folks no one knows: Godori and Siganti from the Torkani,
and Gray Fox from the Aranwyth come as refugees to Red Cow
Fort. Everyone petitions Broddi; some to let them stay, some to
make them go.
Trouble between the refugees and the clan members flares up
regularly — as clan members with a sense of entitlement to the
fort’s stores and protection argue with refugees. Kangharl BlackBrow is active in stirring conflict, despite the clan’s obligation
to hospitality. As the situation worsens, refugees who arrived
early begin to resent newer arrivals, anxious that what meager
offerings the Red Cow can make the refugees will soon become
exhausted. The established refugees become worse than the Red
Cow in causing trouble with the incomers.
When the ‘rule of the bothy’ that the oldest visitors should
make way for new arrivals breaks down, Kestald Far-Traveler
(see below), a thane from Green Meadows, refuses to leave for
Blueberry newcomers. As the PCs wander across the situation,
the newcomers, led by Brofin Hard-Axe have formed a mob
outside the bothy where Kestald and other refugees from Green
Meadows have taken shelter. Brofin and his men are determined
to break into the bothy and evict Kestald by force. A crowd has
gathered — many are refugees who claim the Red Cow is not
following the rules on access to the bothy; others are Red Cow
folk angered their resources are being given to outsiders.
If the PCs do not diffuse the situation, it is certain to lead to
violence. This will have consequences beyond the Great Winter,
as the Blueberry clan is a Red Cow friend.
Occasionally Estavia GoldEyes leaves the safety of the citadel,
though always accompanied by guards. She preaches to the
refugees of the word of the Goddess and offers food from the
Poor Fund (potato-bread, onions and red berries) to anyone who
becomes a Lay Member of the Seven Mothers. She offers healing
to Lay Members who are injured or hurt and says, ‘We are all us.’
Some of the clan converts. Most are sick and cannot get
healing for frostbite, pneumonia, etc. Some are hungry and
don’t find enough in the daily porridge ration to fill their
bellies. The clan is outraged by every conversion, but can offer
little alternative.
Estavia GoldEyes wanders out amongst the refugees
preaching. Many have severe frostbite injuries and Ustarna TryMuch pleads with Estavia “I have no magic, I can do nothing to
heal them, and I will have to amputate many toes, fingers, ears
and noses. Can you help them?”
Estavia replies, “There are too many for me to help alone,
but I could teach you so that you could help them once again.”
Ustarna nods. When Estavia finishes preaching she takes Ustarna
into the Lunar citadel with her.
Estavia comes to preach again a week later and Ustarna
returns with her. She looks tired, but wears clean fresh white
clothing, and has shaved her head bald. She moves amongst the
people and begins healing them. Her fingers work magic again,
and she soothes frostbitten fingers and toes. Some recoil from
her in horror because her magic has a crimson glow.
If a PC approaches her and asks what has happened she looks
sad. “Queen Deezola provides where Ernalda cannot. The needs
of the people outweigh my needs. We are all us.” The PC can
now clearly see a Red Moon Rune tattooed on her arm. As she

1621-1622

107

heals, Estavia moves amongst the sick telling stories of the Red
Goddess’ mercy.
Some refugees come to the PCs and ask what they should do.
“Should we let Ustarna heal our child,” they ask, “her fingers are
so cold?”
Following Ustarna’s conversion, when the missionaries return
to preach, someone else, often a mother looking to care for her
family, converts to the Lunar Way.

HOLLRI
These demons are usually confined to the snowcapped
peaks of the mountains, descending only in winter to
Dragon Pass. They stalk the cold wastes now, ambushing
and killing living things wherever they find them. The PCs
might encounter the Hollri attacking refugees or livestock.
They might come across a clan enemy such as the TwoPine, Emerald Sword, or Telmori engaged in a fight with
the Hollri. The PCs must make a choice: defend people
against demons, attack the survivors, or abandon both
sides to their fate.
The Hollri might gather in enough strength to assault
Red Cow Fort itself!
Hollri, or ice demons, are beings composed entirely
of ice. When Hollri form they are small, but increase in
size and power over the course of several decades or
centuries. They develop innate magical abilities, such as
freezing breath, light, or the ability to travel through solid
ice without leaving any trace.
Hollri
Significant Abilities: Hurl Icicles, Ice Dagger,
Ice Spear, Shield of Ice
Exceptional Abilities: Freezing Breath, Large,
Pass Through Ice, Strong, Touch of Cold
Weaknesses: Fear Warmth, Melted by Heat
Consciousness: Sentient
Relevant Statistics: 800-1000 lbs, 10-12 feet tall

Converting to the Seven Mothers is straightforward. Go and
join the other people who listen to the missionaries when they
speak and accept the food they hand out. New converts do not
suffer the wrath of their old gods; their agents of reprisal are as
impotent as they are.
Many Orlanthi consider the converts as outlaws, however the
Red Cow accommodates their Moon Winds for now, and does
not exile them. The converts have magic, food, and can seek
shelter in the Lunar garrison if threatened.
The Two-Pine have little agriculture, and in some ways this
has protected them for they always have to store winter food
and fuel. As the winter drags on their stores begin to become
exhausted. They only know one way to replenish them, to raid
and take from their neighbors.
A frontal assault on Red Cow Fort is madness, but Orlmarth
the Charioteer leads a group of Culbrea thanes in disguise as
refugees. They smuggle weapons past the guards hidden on mules
loaded with their meagre possessions which are in fact just looted
from abandoned Red Cow steads. This proves their undoing when
someone recognizes a vase from their home and demands to know
how the Two-Pine group got it. The PCs should be drawn to the
ensuing struggle as accusations of ‘looters’ ring out and the TwoPine try to intimidate their way out of the situation.
It goes from bad-to-worse when someone recognizes
Orlmarth, and the Two-Pine reach for their weapons.
Orlmarth orders his men to take hostages. His plan is to
demand food in return for freeing the hostages.
If that fails, or they seem to be losing, Orlmarth will simply
teleport out, taking his four storms (his sworn men) with him.
At that point the remaining Two-Pine raiders offer ransom in
return for their lives.
The Two-Pine raids continue, unless someone negotiates with
them (see Tribute below).
Ashart Dusk-Eater hides in Red Cow Fort amidst the crowds,
hoping the Lunar authorities will not recognize him and no one
will betray him. Of course, before long a new convert knows his
whereabouts, and betrays him to the authorities in the citadel.
Soon the Empire’s Moon Dogs hunt through Red Cow Fort.
Ashart asks the PCs to help him escape — it’s possible they have
already aided him in the episode Manhunt and he trusts them.
Where can he hide? Brightwater has strong walls and is still a
place of safety. It’s far enough away from the authorities, but the
journey down the Heort Creek will
be hazardous, even on skates.
Bounty Hunters continue to
operate in Red Cow Fort, looking
for those rebels driven to its safety
by the cold. Orstalor and Venharl
might take refuge here, or Orngerin
Thundercape. There may be running
battles in Red Cow Fort as traitorous
clan members or refugees betray
these rebels for some soup, a piece of
bread, or the chance to sit by the fire.
Finally, Red Cow Fort may
seem like a refuge that few would
challenge, but the fort itself comes

Hollri attack during the Great Winter

108

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

under assault from Hollri. The PCs should be foremost in the
defense of the fort against these monsters, or organizing the
safety of the refugees or care of the wounded.
Death of Jaranil

Chief Broddi calls the PCs into his hall. Refugees pack the proud
hall, sitting with a few treasured possessions on the once proud
mead-benches. They stare blankly into the fire, coughing with
chest infections, some moaning with the pain of frostbitten toes
or fingers. Chief Broddi sits on the high seat. Kernalda OtherWays stands at her chieftain’s side. The PCs wait whilst Broddi
finishes discussing a dispute that has boiled over between two
refugees over a loaf of bread. Then he summons the PCs forward.
“Two days ago I sent Jaranil to Brightwater. It was a routine
patrol, nothing more, with the chance to see if any of the animals
had survived thus far and might be slaughtered. He has not
returned. Find him! I need him!”
On the way to Brightwater, the PCs encounter a column of
refugees. Their few meager possessions are crammed into oxcarts. They ask the PCs: “Is it safe at Red Cow Fort?” When
questioned they tell the PCs that, “Raiders came at dawn, killing
and burning. We managed to escape with our lives but many
were not so lucky.”
One or two ask the PCs about relatives: have they seen them
ahead on the road, but the PCs have seen no one.
When the PCs reach Brightwater, they find it occupied by a
unit of the Mirinite Swords from Jonstown.
Smoke hangs in the air from burning steads torched by
raiders. There is a smell of sulfur. Haze. Something burning
somewhere: a thatched roof, the smoldering ashes, and pillars
of a hall. There are dead bodies lying in pools of blood, staring
glassy eyed and homes with missing doors, collapsed roofs,
broken pots, chests broken open, scattered clothing. Cats wander
mewing throughout the ruined steads.
The Lunar Empire has been preparing for the Death of Orlanth,
but has not stockpiled enough food for all its garrisons. Local
commanders send the troops out to forage amidst the abandoned
villages, rounding up livestock, gathering grain and vegetables.
The soldiers kill the animals for slaughter and throw their
corpses along with jars of grain, and bales of hay onto enormous
sledges. Teams of new converts to the Seven Mothers pull the
sledges on ropes. Most are Orlanthi men, following the example
of Danfive Xaron in paying penance for their former life. Their
overseer, Ohorlan the Penitent, exhorts them to greater efforts,
declaring: “Hard work will free you!”
They are systematically stripping the village and piling
animal carcasses and jars of food onto makeshift sleds. There are
seven wooden crosses in the center of the village and crucified
on them are Jaranil the Thunder and his patrol. The PCs notice
that some of the figures on the crosses still move, they are not
dead yet. As the PCs watch, too far away to intervene, their
commander walks up to Jaranil. From under a military blanket,
he pulls a spear. Even at this distance, it is clear it is the Meteor
Spear, a clan treasure. He stabs it into Jaranil’s side whilst his
men laugh.
Do the PCs try to avenge Jaranil and recover the Meteor
Spear? If the PCs return to Red Cow Fort without acting, many

will lose faith in them as agents for the clan. Kullina the Fat
will be incensed: how could they let this go un-avenged? How
could they let the Meteor Spear fall into Lunar hands? Chief
Broddi is more sympathetic and points out the danger of Lunar
reprisals. People mock Broddi as weak more openly now, and the
Rivals (see page XX) hold court in their halls openly criticizing
his leadership. If the PCs act, everyone is saddened by Jaranil’s
death, but relieved at the recovery of the Meteor Spear.
With Jaranil’s death, Chief Broddi appoints Ortossi as
his successor, even if a PC seems an obvious candidate. This
shocks everyone. Broddi dislikes Ortossi as a brute, and
everyone knows it. Broddi simply says, “Desperate times call
for desperate measures.”
I Won’t Go!

Chief Broddi asks the PCs to retrieve some people who will not
leave Green Meadows for the safety of Red Cow Fort. Broddi’s
instructions are clear: “I can’t protect them there, bring them
into Red Cow Fort.” Jarkorl Snow-Whiskers, and the farmers at
Green Meadows refuse to come to the fort. They are determined:
“We need to stay here to protect our livestock and homes,” they
say. “There is no room for them in Red Cow Fort.”
One of the thanes, Kestald Far-Traveler, tells the PCs: “Folks
here are perfectly capable of looking after themselves, we don’t
need to shelter behind Broddi’s walls.”
Allow the PCs and Jarkorl to debate for a while, but before
taking it to a contest, interrupt the conversation with an attack

ICE CRAWLER
These spider-like monsters are another non-native species
seemingly drawn into Dragon Pass by the Great Winter.
They are vicious hunters and form a nasty foe for a patrol,
group of emissaries, or caravan. An ice crawler is a large
arthropod adapted to life in cold conditions and high
altitudes. It stands about three feet high and has a body
about six feet in diameter. Covered with coarse white
hair, these predators are fearless in pursuit of prey. They
stand on eight stout, powerful legs and are equipped with
fearsome mandibles. Each leg ends in a series of hooks
allowing it great traction on ice and snow. Its head is
shaped like a small round pillow ringed with eyes, which
allow it a full 360° panoramic view of its surroundings at
all times. Its vision extends into the infrared spectrum,
allowing it to pick out living things against mountain
glaciers or snow-covered hills.
Ice Crawler
Significant Abilities: Fearsome Mandibles,
Run on Ice or Snow
Exceptional Abilities: Find Prey, Infrared Vision,
Panoramic Vision
Consciousness: Sentient
Relevant Statistics: 200-300 lbs, 6, wide, 3 feet tall

1621-1622

109

by a pack of Ice Crawlers. These creatures have gained strength
in the unnatural winter and they attack settlements, travelers,
patrols, or bands of refugees.
After the assault the PCs will find it easy to persuade Jarkorl
to lead his people to Red Cow Fort and away from the dangers
of the Great Winter.
The Wolf at the Door

The impact on the Great Winter is terrible for the Telmori. The
Telmori dens do have food reserves for the winter, but little
surplus; as the winter stores run out, they rely on the bounty of
spring. Spring should bring fresh plants to gather, and animals
to hunt. As winter drags on, no green shoots appear, the animals
starve and die, and game becomes scarce. The Telmori dens
starve. Their only option is to hunt further afield, competing
with the Sartarite hunters who suffer in the same way, or raid
their neighbors to steal their winter stores. The Red Cow has
trouble with Telmori packs throughout the Great Winter.
The PCs are on patrol when they come across a group of
refugees and their animals struggling through the snow. There
are two-dozen refugees but they are making heavy going. They
have three ox-carts laden with possessions and a small flock of
sheep and some prize cows. The refugees blow their horns and
signal their presence to the PCs — a common sign their intent
on Red Cow lands is not hostile.
Suddenly one of the PCs notices a pack of wolves appear
behind the refugees and lope after them. The refugees begin
goading their oxen, but the carts slip and slide in the snow. A
few begin running but tumble over on the icy ground.
It is Wildday, as any PC can tell from the Full Moon in the
sky. The wolves look big. Telmori!
If the PCs decide to help the refugees, they may be able to
reach them before the Telmori if they have Movement magic.
However, the PCs may not realize the Telmori they can see
are flushing the refugees into an ambush. More Telmori are
waiting for the refugees to be driven into their killing ground.
Killing Telmori without magic is Nearly Impossible. When the
PCs Name the Prize remind them werewolves are immune to nonmagic weapons. With no magic, how will they kill them? One
option is for the PCs to try to help the refugees flee, abandoning
their possessions, more importantly their livestock to the Telmori.
Despite their situation, some of the refugees (named Gultar FlatStone and Korli the Dove) argue with the PCs saying, “We have
lost everything else, at least let us save this.”
After the incident, the same question is on every lip around
Red Cow Fort, “Without magic, how will we fight the wolfmen?”
The Great Winter strikes the Blueberry particularly hard.
They have no refuge like Red Cow Fort or Dangerford Fort
to fall back on; many head to Fordstone, but the number of
refugees begin to overwhelm the clan.
Telmori packs, suffering from the Great Winter, sweep west
into Blueberry lands. Many farmers die fighting the wolfmen
who come to steal their flocks and herds of sheep and cattle.
Edrath the Wise tries to hold the clan together as best he can;
he tries to cluster the clan into three defendable villages. Queen
Ivartha’s household responds in their hour of need, moving
between the villages with supplies and news. Nevertheless, many

110

flee to Red Cow Fort or Jonstown. Edrath calls for help, and
Ivartha and Broddi respond, asking the PCs to join the effort
against the wolfmen.
If the PCs visit the Blueberry, they will find the clan under
siege from raids by Telmori packs. If the PCs offer help, Destoral
the Short, the Blueberry Warband Leader, asks them to help kill
the pack leader and thus drive the Telmori off.
The Telmori are desperate, with too few winter stores, and
need to steal food just to survive. When Blueberry warriors find
them, Destoral is in no mood for mercy. The pack keeps moving,
usually from abandoned village to village, taking what shelter
they can in the Blueberry’s former homes.
Ghouls!

If the PCs visit the Dolutha, they find them gathered in Dangerford
to shelter; Twisted Morganeth has persuaded her kin to pool the
resources of food they have available and every day feeds the clan
from her soup pot, eking out their meager resources. The Soup
Pot rite feeds everyone as long as they all share. Sadly, divisions
within the clan led to food hoarding, which weaken the rite, and
lead to hunger. Although people knew there would be enough to
go around if all share everything they have, few in the clan trust
others not to hoard and so ‘hold a little back.’ The lack of trust
means many starve when they need not.
The Dolutha are anxious and wretched. Arnal the Ghoul
Thane plagues them, and the people are afraid to travel at
night or alone. Twisted Morganeth and Gudny Gold-Lamb
beg the PCs’ aid, saying even the Dolutha dead do not have
any dignity. She tells them there are dead on the King’s Road,
frozen to death, and she fears the ghouls will make them their
next meal. She offers to show them where, in the hope that they
can fight off the undead.
Twisted Morganeth guides the PCs onto the King’s Road,
searching for dead travelers. Gudny Gold-Lamb and a posse
of carls and thanes accompany them. The group soon comes
across ice-covered corpses. They are frozen as they died, their
eyes shut as though asleep, covered in a layer of frost. Crows
and ravens feed on the dead, jabbing at their eyes and entrails
with their beaks.
Staking out the corpse-field is an act of endurance, huddled
in furs against the cold, waiting for the ghouls to come. When
they do, they come in force, for many starving individuals have
joined King Brangbane, swelling the ranks of his ghoul army.
Twisted Morganeth and Gudny Gold-Lamb have no idea
Arnal leads the ghouls; they will recoil in horror when they see
him amongst the ghoul raiders. Twisted Morganeth’s anguished
scream alerts the ghouls to the ambush; they raise their own
howl. Arnal laughs at Gudny and Morganeth: “You left me for
dead, but my king, Brangbane, gave me a new life. Now I shall
feast on all your flesh as you once hoped the wolves would feed
on mine.”
Many of the Dolutha break in terror and run. Arnal laughs
manically and urges his forces forwards. Gudny seems rooted to
the spot, paralyzed with fear. Arnal, the ghoul thane is at least
Very High resistance, though his ghoul army may be weaker.
If the PCs help drive off the ghouls, they gain the gratitude of
the Dolutha, particularly Morganeth. She seems broken by the

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

experience of seeing Arnal as a ghoul, and on their return sobs
uncontrollably of the horror to Gudny Gold-Lamb.
If the PCs lose the contest Arnal strikes down Gudny GoldLamb but Twisted Morganeth escapes. Later Morganeth searches
for Gudny’s body but cannot find it; she realizes the ghouls have
taken it for food.
Success in aiding the Dolutha will bolster the Red Cow’s
Peace Resource. Choose the most appropriate contest result to
add to the Resource.
Moon Dogs

After a time the Empire decides anyone not holed up in one of
the towns or cities, or dying in their villages is probably a rebel,
and Tatius the Bright issues orders to kill them on sight.
When the PCs are out of Red Cow Fort, have Moon Dogs
see them and attack. These enemies do not try to negotiate; they
are on a seek-and-destroy mission to wipeout any remaining
Sartarite rebels they can find.
Of course, the Empire suffers from the weather conditions
too. Away from the safety of Lunar strongholds most Lunar
troops rapidly lose enthusiasm.
You can make this encounter more interesting by varying the
terrain. For example, set it on a frozen river: the Orlanthi may
have the advantage of skating, over Lunar patrols marching in
hobnailed boots. Clever PCs may be able to take advantage of
weak ice or slippery surfaces during the contest and should gain
a Situational Modifier.
If the PCs hid Ashart, or other rebels, in Brightwater, they
may now have to race against time to get them out, as Moon
Dogs decide to “flush the rebels” out of those places. This might
be a fight against a small group of bounty hunters, or it could be
a flight from overwhelming odds to a new hiding place.
Once the hinterland becomes unsafe Ashart’s only suggestion
is to hide in the tunnels under Red Cow Fort. It is sheltered
from the elements, and provides protection from the Empire.
Of course, everyone is nervous. With so many strangers in Red
Cow Fort, someone might see the clan’s great secret and sell out
the rebels hiding under the fort. But what options are there, now
only a few places of safety remain against the Great Winter.
Arkat’s Tax

The Sazdorf Trolls (see The Gifts of Stone in the Sartar Companion)
send Chief Kozakang to meet with Chief Broddi and his ring.
The Red Cow clan has an old friendship with the trolls, so
everyone hopes the trolls will help. The trolls have winter survival
skills, and they can survive in and even prefer the current cold
temperatures in Dragon Pass. Perhaps the Red Cow could hire
the trolls to help patrol the clan’s lands?
Everyone is a little surprised when Chief Kozakang demands
the ‘Shadow Tribute’ or ‘Arkat’s Tax.’ “This is the Darkness,”
the troll says. “This is our world and if you want to survive then
you must pay us tribute.” The clan may ask what they get in
return for such tribute. Kozakang says: “If you pay the tribute
then we will not eat you. This is Arkat’s Tax that he gave Uz
the rights for, because of Uz help in defeating the Bright One.
Because you are good friends to Uz we will not ask you for taxes
owed from the past.”

Moon Dogs use the Great Winter to hunt-and-kill rebels in Sartar
Chief Broddi and the ring refuse to pay: “We have always
had friendship with the Sazdorf, and we are shocked they will
not help us now.”
The trouble does not end there. The Sazdorf begins raiding
Red Cow clan lands. Mostly they just loot the outlying steads
abandoned by people, taking away pottery or metal goods, and
letting their trollkin eat the homes. The first time a patrol comes
across a looted stead they are confused by the bite marks where
lumps of pillars, doors, and walls seem to have been chewed
away. The PCs may encounter troll looters. The trolls see the
Great Winter as an opportunity and so the PCs will have to fight
them off. From across the clan there are regular reports of trolls
and people fighting.
The problem becomes so bad that Broddi has to act. He sends
the PCs to the Sazdorf to negotiate a settlement: “See if you can
come to some agreement over ‘Arkat’s Tax’ before the trolls eat
everything.”
Chief Kozakang greets the PCs and handles the negotiations
again. The trolls are motivated by injured pride — they once
ruled Dragon Pass — and the desire to exploit the human’s
difficulty as much as possible. At the same time, they cannot
afford losses; so prolonged fighting with humans will always hurt
the trolls more than people. They hope to gain by intimidation
now, and it is possible to call their bluff.
The contest here affects clan Resources. A loss depletes the
clan’s Wealth Resource as the Red Cow agrees to pay Arkat’s Tax
to the trolls. A Victory bolsters the clan’s War Resource, as the
trolls agree to help the clan patrol its lands (for a modest fee).

1621-1622

111

BEYOND THE CINSINA
The Resurrection Thrones

Farandar Orendalsson asks the PCs to join him in the Chieftain’s
Hall. When the PCs arrive, they find him sitting with Kullina
the Fat and an old man with a long white beard wearing purple
robes. Farandar asks the PCs to sit and introduces them to
Minaryth Purple (see Sartar Companion page 25). Kullina and
Farandar speak to the PCs of the graveness of the situation Sartar
faces, and only magical means can save everyone now.
“Minaryth believes he has a way to loosen Orlanth from his
bonds,” Kullina says, “but he needs our help obtaining secrets
that will help him figure out how.”
Minaryth explains he has been looking for ways to free
Orlanth. “Within the Jonstown Compendium there is a reference
to a carving of the ‘Resurrection Thrones,’ where Polaris readmits
the dead to the Sky on one of the walls of the Star Tower of the
Illavani. I need to see that carving.”
Farandar explains that Minaryth has asked the Red Cow to
provide an escort as a favor, because of the Red Cow’s friendship
with the Orlmarth.
“Unfortunately,” Minaryth tells the PCs, “the Star Tower
now lies ruined, its wreckage amidst the Cinder Pits of Starfire
Ridge, and Venebain’s demons haunt the Pits. The Orlmarthi
know magic to protect travelers from the demons; we will need
their help.”
Minaryth can tell the PCs the story of the Cinder Pits as
outlined in the Sartar Companion (page 40).
Minaryth leads the PCs to the Orlmarth (see Sartar:
Kingdom of Heroes page 288). He needs to call at the Jonstown
Library and so he chooses to travel there via the King’s Road,
then on to Runegate (see the Sartar Companion) and on to the
Starfire Ridges.
We suggest narrating the journey as an Arduous Auto-Success
as they witness suffering around them. You can use material
from Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes and the Sartar Companion to
improvise adventures if you prefer, perhaps to show the situation
at Runegate during the Great Winter (see Sartar Companion page
55). There Selelmal the True performs a This World heroquest —
Elmal Defends the Camp — and shines with a radiance that keeps
the Great Winter away from Runegate. The cost is that many
foes are drawn to Runegate as a result. The narrator may also
want to use the Encounters section of the Sartar Companion to
improvise road encounters for their journey.
It is also possible to use other scenes from this episode during
that journey such as Ghouls.
The Orlmarth welcome the Red Cow party, though it is
obvious the clan suffers as everyone else does in the Great Winter.
At Old Man Village (see Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes page 290)
Chief Gordangar and his ring assembles to hear the request from
their Red Cow friends. The Orlmarth stage a modest feast, for
the clan has little other than barley beer and gruel, and their Red
Cow visitors tells the tales of Cinsina lands. Afterwards, everyone
is saddened by the woe of the Great Winter.
The PCs seek the aid of the red-headed woodpeckers of
the Orlmarth in defeating the Venebain demons of the Cinder
Pits — in HeroQuest Glorantha terms they are asking to use the

112

Orlmarth’s Magic Resource. Gordangar insists Erinina CopperAxe and Orlgard Korlmarsson accompany the expedition;
Minaryth readily agrees.
This is not enough to convince the Orlmarth ring, who
require a deeper commitment.
The PCs succeed if they choose to pay a price — with no
contest if they agree to pay that price.
We leave the Orlmarth’s price to the Game Master, although
we do provide a couple of suggestions. The Orlmarth’s price
must be something requiring a meaningful sacrifice by one of
the PCs; something must be given up to save the clan, something
that means something to at least one PC. Remember that the
Red Cow and Orlmarth are friends — the Orlmarth will not ask
for something that looks to harm either clan, but further bind
their relationship together.
Perhaps one of the PCs is unmarried and the Orlmarth ask
that he or she marry to cement the bond between the two clans.
If the PC is male, then perhaps they have a sweetheart who they
must now forsake for their new Orlmarth bride, or perhaps they
must divorce their current spouse. If the PC is female they must
leave the Red Cow to live with their new husband — taking
them out of the game. Remember the marriage must involve
some sacrifice.
Although the woodpeckers guard the Cinder Pits, they
themselves need a guardian. What price could be more appropriate
than the PC should give up their life amongst the Red Cow after
the quest and come to live in the Guardian Woods, protecting the
sacred forest against those who would profane them or seek to
harm the woodpeckers that live there. The guardian’s existence will
be a hermitic and lonely one, but filled with sacred purpose — and
again takes the PC out of the game.
If the PCs agree to these terms, then Chief Gordangar calls
forth the leader of the PCs group and Morganeth White-Eye. He
has the blind woman tattoo the PC with the sacred woodpecker
marking of the Orlmarth clan, which will allow him to call upon
the red woodpeckers’ aid in the Cinder Pits.
If the PCs fail to reach agreement with the Orlmarth clan,
Gordangar does not prevent them entering the Cinder Pits and
trying — he just believes they are doomed.
The Cinder Pits are covered with thick ash and stone boulders,
and marked by small explosions of super-hot stinking gas. The
heat of these smoking vents melts the winter snow, resulting in
bubbling and noxious mud pots. There are many large boulders
and other rock formations. Blackened skulls rest atop many of
these stones and numerous skeletons are scattered throughout
the area.
Minaryth leads the expedition into the Cinder Pits. He
begins examining the blocks, occasionally asking the PCs to
bring staves or spear hafts to lever them over to examining a
hidden underside. The heat of the steam, at first a blessed relief
from the usual cold, soon makes the work hot and miserable. It
is clear Minaryth does not know where to look, and this may
take some time.
The Venebain demons want nothing more than to take
vengeance upon Orlanth and his followers for trapping them in
the Middle World. When Minaryth finds the right stone, it has
two or three blackened skulls atop it, as though it were an altar.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

VENEBAIN DEMONS
Venebain’s minions are made of living fire, taking the
form of angry red-skinned men with long blazing hair and
multicolored wings. They breathe flame and poison, and
carry burning spears or flaming stone. They are always
clad in red-gold plates of metal covering them completely.
Venebain Demons
Significant Abilities: Fly, Living Fire, Metal Plates
Exceptional Abilities: Breathe Flame, Burning Spear,
Flaming Stone
Consciousness: Sentient
Relevant Statistics: 100-150 lbs, 7-9 feet tall

Minaryth turns to the PCs: “Under here,” he begins, “this is
the carving I read about in the Compendium.” Just then the
PCs here a sizzling sound, like frying bacon, and suddenly the
Venebain are upon them.
The Venebain should be a Very High resistance. If the
PCs gained the support of the Orlmarth clan, they can call
on the red-headed woodpeckers for aid against the Venebain.
A swarm of the woodpeckers flock from the Guardian Woods
into the Cinder Pits to attack the Venebain. The PC who has
the woodpecker tattoo can use this swarm as a 12W Augment
for a PC fighting a Venebain demon. There should be enough
Venebain demons to provide a challenge to the PCs, at least one
per PC. With the Venebain attack beaten off, Minaryth and the
PCs can turn the stone over, and copy down the carving of the
Resurrection Thrones.
The PCs should be able to copy the images for the seventh
belt from the Three New Stars episode below. If the PCs ask
Minaryth what it means, then he replies: “Means, means! Well,
I would have thought it was obvious. It means Polaris must be
willing to take into the Sky a god who has fallen. We can put
stars back in the Sky using their corpses. Perhaps the Broken
Ring can be made whole.”
If the PCs ask about Polaris or the Broken Ring, a priest or
divine affinity rune contest lets them know: Polaris is the name
of Rigsdal when he served the Emperor, not Orlanth, and that
he is the Pole Star; the Broken Ring is Orlanth’s Ring — which
has not been seen in the Sky since his ‘death.’
The Picture Door

Farandar Orendalsson asks the PCs to join him in the Chieftain’s
Hall. When the PCs arrive, they find the hall crowded with
petitioners for Queen Ivartha who has recently arrived with her
household in Red Cow Fort. Amidst the hubbub and confusion,
Farandar guides the PCs to where Kullina the Fat talks to
Minaryth Purple.
Kullina and Farandar speak to the PCs of the graveness of
the situation Sartar faces, and that only magical means can save
everyone now. “Minaryth has been toiling long into the night,”
Kullina says.

Minaryth explains that he is looking for ways to return
Orlanth — but one promising avenue requires access to a relief
carved on the Picture Door in Boldhome.
“The Cauldron of Pieces is a potential route out of this crisis,
but the scrolls in the Jonstown Library holding a copy of the
carvings on the Picture Door depicting the Cauldron were lost
or stolen.”
Minaryth also explains the Empire has forbidden access to
the Top Pocket, where the Door is located, and covered the Door
in lead. “They are afraid of what is written on that door. Copy
it down for me.”
Minaryth will accompany the PCs. Travel to Boldhome will
take the PCs via Dangerford and then down the King’s Road.
You can treat this as an Arduous Auto-Success and simply narrate
their struggles against the Great Winter. You can intersperse
some other scenes in this episode into that journey such as Wolf
at the Door or Moon Dogs. You can also use material from Sartar:
Kingdom of Heroes and the Sartar Companion to improvise
adventures if you prefer.
For a full description of Boldhome see Sartar: Kingdom of
Heroes, pages 241-245.
The Cinsina tribal manor lies here in the Right Arm,
surrounded by the manors of the other tribes. The tribal manor
consists of a longhouse and some stables for use of the guests.
Orldarmon Blackbeard of the Underwillow clan keeps the tribal
manor. It is comfortable, if not luxurious.
Like anywhere stable and secure, refugees have overrun the tribal
house. However Orldarmon is running a ‘first in, first out’ policy
so the party can stay here, crammed into a sleeping space on the
floor, provided they are happy to evict someone else. Orldarmon
expects a gift in return for hospitality. Only simple fare is available
to eat though, and guests are encouraged to dine in the town.
The Cinsina is now the second largest tribe in Sartar, after
the Colymar, and they rise to that status. People come and go
from the manor house, lobbying for the Cinsina interests at the
Prince’s court, or trading in the Boldhome marketplaces. This
can be a good opportunity for the PCs to meet members of the
tribal ring: Verlain Never-Doubt might be here to petition the
Prince for help, or Kallai Hairy-Breeks might be here looking for
adventure, provided it strikes a blow against the Empire.
The narrator should feel free to improvise incidents in
Boldhome.
Conflict within Boldhome is dangerous, as Prince Temertain
has outlawed dueling. The Lunar authorities arrest any duelists
and fines or worse are common punishments. See Sartar:
Kingdom of Heroes, pages 304-309 for an example of how this
might play out.
Boldhome is not as overrun with refugees as the lowland cities
— and there is less of an apocalyptic feel. There are a number of
reasons for this: the cold is worse here in the mountains; the
limited access to the city; and there is open space in the city for
refugee camps.
Prince Temertain and Estal Donge make a show of helping
the refugees by visiting the camps and making vague promises
of food and shelter, but these are never met. The Seven Mother’s
mission does win many converts from amongst the desperate,
and they run the refugee camps here, in the Prince’s name.

1621-1622

113

The cold temperatures, and the short hours of daylight masked
by the mountains, make Boldhome icy — so few people move
about outside unless they have to. This includes the Empire’s
patrols, for its soldiers have no more desire to be outside.
The Picture Door lies in the Top Pocket — which is deserted
except for Lunar patrols. The East Pocket, below Top Pocket,
home to the Orlanth temple, was once patrolled too — but the
Empire has stopped trying to prevent access to the temple since
the death of Orlanth. The Lunar pocket, where the garrison is
stationed lies below the East Pocket — which means that anyone
approaching the Top Pocket is easily visible making the climb
during the day.
A file of the Beryl Phalanx (see Sartar Companion, page 120)
is stationed on guard duty here. Because of the cold, the patrols
have taken over a large house in the pocket, a former palace of
a rich and wealthy family, and turned it into a guard shelter —
though it is little more than a hearth with a suspended cauldron
of hot stew.
The PCs need to defeat the guards or evade the patrols to
reach the Picture Door, and copy down the carving of the
Cauldron of Pieces there. The Hellmouth, Cauldron of Pieces,
and Fields of Plenty are emerging from the lead, which seems to
have flaked away — though the PCs may need to peel some away
to get at the full carving. There are other enigmatic images where
the lead flakes away; one in particular may catch the PCs’ eye: a
dragon’s head swallowing soldiers, priests, and kings from below.
The PCs should be able to copy the images from the fifth belt of
the Three New Stars episode below.
If the players manage to evade the Beryl Phalanx, have them
meet the guards as they try to leave. Either way the PCs will leave
injured hoplites or corpses behind them. Even if the PCs hide
the bodies, the soldiers here will be missed the next day, and the
Imperial authorities will begin looking for the killers. Security at
the exits from Boldhome will increase — the PCs may have to
bluff their way out to avoid the guards searching their belongings
and uncovering their copy of the Picture Door’s reliefs.
The PCs may ask Minaryth about the meaning of the bas-relief.
He tells them: “This will take some time, I must compare these
symbols against my notes, but this, yes, this is clearly the Cauldron
of Pieces, and perhaps the Cauldron of Ver too. Moreover, yes,
this, this is the Hellmouth, which is well known to us.”
If the PCs ask a priest about the Hellmouth, or succeed in a
Moderate resistance context using their divine rune affinity, tell
the PCs the Hellmouth is a gateway in the Underworld beyond
the City of the Dead leading deeper into Hell.
See Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes pages 336 and 338 for other
myths the PCs can learn about the Underworld from their
priests and Minaryth Purple.

PLAY OF THE GAME
Look through the season description to get a feel for how these
scenes could unfold. The theme is apocalyptic. The Game Master
should show the PCs that life, as they know it, is in peril. Only
at a few strongholds do the Sartarites survive, and the increasing
pressures on those few places of safety mean that even those
beacons of hope seem to be flickering.

114

Of course, the key to running survival stories is the players
must be able to win some victories — unrelenting death and
doom becomes dull and the players tend to despair of their
actions making any difference and feel powerless.
In play-testing, the game always began by showing the
situation in Red Cow Fort. Narrators then used Resource Crisis
to drive the direction of the episode. What Resources are most
at risk? Can the PCs bolster them before the clan starves, is
overcome by its enemies, or disintegrates? After that the order
in which the narrator ran material should depend on the mood
at the table, its tolerance for post-apocalyptic imagery, and the
players’ interest in evens outside Red Cow Fort. By this point in
the campaign the PCs will have relationships with NPCs and the
players may be keen to play scenes which reveal the fate of those
NPCs in the Great Winter. We encourage the narrator to prepare
or improvise such scenes for their own game.
One option is to intersperse scenes from the deterioration
in the countryside such as I Won’t Go and Death of Jaranil the
Thunder with material based in Red Cow Fort so that the PCs
appreciate how much things are falling apart.
To provide the players something positive, the narrator can then
run Picture Door. That journey lets you run Wolf at the Door and
Moon Dogs, as part of their route to the capital, giving the PCs a
sense of the situation across Sartar. One danger to be aware of is to

AROUND THE WORLD
This event is noticed around the world.
During the events of Orlanth is Dead, the air disappears
from an area 250 miles across, centered on Whitewall.
Within that area, Orlanth is dead and Ernalda sleeps,
the air remains still, breathless, and the winter does not
end. Within that area no priests at holy sites can contact
the gods, and those who travel to them from outside
the area on their high holy day, by flying to Kero Fin for
example, cannot.
Outside of that area of effect, for people living in
locations such as Ralios and Umathela, the winds still
blow, spring comes as expected, and people continue
to be able to work magic.
At the same time the wound in the air sucks air from
around into it, rushing to fill the hole. When it reaches
the hole it vanishes. This weather event has an effect
across Glorantha as the normal pattern of weather is
supplanted by a movement of air toward Dragon Pass.
The winds increase in intensity as they draw closer
to the edge of the area of effect, becoming hurricane
force at the border, but then die off once they cross
into the Windstop.
And everyone is aware of changes in the Sky, Orlanth’s
Ring no longer traverses the Heavens.
Across Glorantha Orlanthi priests know that their god
has been wounded, and explain what has happened in
terms of local conflicts and threats.
A few set out for Dragon Pass, to learn the truth.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

avoid an extended series of adventures far from home that mean the PCs lose any
sense of why they are going to Boldhome, or the threat to their home and kin.
On the PCs’ return to the Red Cow, we returned to the poor state of affairs
in Red Cow Fort. You can extend outward again, show the situation with the
Dolutha in Ghouls, meet with the Sazdorf Trolls demand for Arkat’s Tax.
By this point, most groups are bored of the post-apocalyptic misery and
are ready to take direct action to end the Great Winter. At that point run the
Resurrection Thrones. Once the PCs return from that, they have the pieces of
the Three New Stars heroquest and you can go straight into that episode.

THE THREE NEW STARS
BACKGROUND
The ring summons the PCs to the chieftain’s hall in Red Cow Fort. Kallyr
Starbrow and Minaryth Purple are there; Orngerin Thundercape and members
of the Silent Wind hero band accompany them. A tall man in a hooded cloak,
conspicuous by his stature, accompanies them, but is not introduced.
Kallyr tells the PCs that she wants them to recover three missing pieces of
the god Orlanth; three stars which went missing from Orlanth’s Ring.
Kallyr explains the number of stars in Orlanth’s Ring has not always been
the same. Two disappeared at the Sunstop more than a millennia ago, then reappeared. Another fell three hundred years ago during Orlanth’s Battle with the
Red Goddess at Castle Blue. (Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes page 85). “Stars can fall,
and can rise again,” she says. “We believe that there are ‘Corpse Stars’ which are
dead already, and so were not imprisoned by the Lunar ritual. Returning these
stars to the sky could offer help to Orlanth’s worshippers in the Middle World.”
Kallyr knows the Red Cow clan is in trouble. She also knows this is an
opportunity to win over the Red Cow, who have wavered in support for the
rebellion. “This is the Red Cow’s last chance, perhaps everyone’s” she tells the
PCs. “You must bring back the missing stars from Orlanth’s Ring, weakening
the fetters binding him, and providing a light for people in the Great Darkness.”
Broddi tells the PCs: “The doom of the world is upon us; we cannot go on.
We must act now to save our kin, our neighbors, and our friends.”
“To provide the support of the rebellion,” Kallyr says, “I need the Red Cow
to recognize my claim to be Prince of Sartar and not Temertain.”
The PCs have to agree in order to participate; Orngerin makes them swear
an oath to help Kallyr take her rightful place as Prince of Sartar.
If any PCs refuse, Broddi tries to persuade them. The PCs may try to
negotiate their support, or ask for more in return, but participating in the
quest requires them to support Kallyr as Prince of Sartar.
Some players may object to this, feeling railroaded into agreeing support
to participate in the adventure; make it clear that Kallyr is exploiting the
in-game difficulties of the tribe to force it into supporting her. The Game
Master might choose to run this as a contest with the prize concessions won
from Kallyr — such as renouncing her support of the Telmori, or their use as
part of her Royal Bodyguard.

MINARYTH’S BELTS
Minaryth shows everyone a set of belts and explains the meaning of the runes
on them, explaining that the Lhankor Mhy cult has been working since the
crisis began to put together this information. “No one has done this before;
you will be cutting a new path, assembled from fragments of other myths.
These were created under my direction, and they are all our knowledge of how
to perform this quest.”

1621-1622

Minaryth’s Belts

115

This is a complicated heroquest, and there is a lot of information
to impart to the players. Use the props of the belts, and provide the
myths as handouts that can be studied later. Do not race through
this, even if the temptation for the players is just to ‘get on with it.’
The First and Second Belts

Minaryth tells them, “The first and second belts are instructions
for the ceremony to cross over to the Other Side. Inner Mountain
and Air Man are the roles — Earth priestess and Storm Voice —
of the ritual leaders. The amounts of sacrifice are shown. The
second line shows the ritual must be performed at Dawn, and
Air and Sky must be present to cross over. Kallyr will take the
Sky role, and one of you must be Air.
“The participants must be Orlanth, Earth Axe, Spear, and Sword,
with three others. The ceremony involves Inner Mountain and Air
Man, and must use the Fertility snake rites and Invoke Doom.”
The Third Belt

“If Mastakos is present, the participants can go straight to the
Court of Silence,” the Sage explains. “If he is not present, they have
to follow the Path of the Dead to the Court. The Third belt shows
the journey into the Underworld, which Mastakos can avoid.”
“I have brought a follower of Mastakos with me, who will be
able to take you to the Court of Silence,” says Kallyr.
She introduces Orlmarl the Charioteer. Orlmarl pulls back
the hood on his cloak to stand before the PCs. The PCs may have
met Orlmarl whilst fighting the Telmori or during the Manhunt.
Regardless, everyone knows Orlmarl is a famous Sartarite hero,
the Charioteer of Hofstaring Treeleaper and now of Ranulf
Stand-Tall. He is also a member of the Two-Pine clan and bears
a grudge against the Red Cow.

THE NAMERS IN THE GREEN AGE
“The first leader in Brilliantia was Genert. He was a Namer.
With a band of his equals, Genert went about the whole
of Brilliantia and gave names to the things they encountered. He gave names to everything, and so the totality of
everything was in turn named after him. Thus Genertela
became the second name of the lands of Brilliantia, and
the name is still used today.
“When we Journey to those simple times we can still
speak that Universal Tongue. Everything can speak to each
other, because there is only one way to communicate
and everything is able to do so. The Divine is all around
us there. We speak Genert’s Tongue. Be warned, though:
a Journey to Genert’s Era is dangerous to anyone who
has not learned they are, in fact, a Small God. The power
of that simple, first language is such that uttering it at
any time causes something to be created. If you do this,
and do not know the secrets of being a Small God, the
consequences of your actions will have the same disastrous consequences they had for those original beings.
The Universal Language is the Language of Creation, and
so any petty utterance creates something.”

116

Ask the PCs how they feel about this? Are they happy to rely
on an enemy for this quest?
If the PCs refuse to take Orlmarl with them, Kallyr asks them
“Do you really wish to put your clan at risk, by walking the Path
of the Dead, just to pursue a petty feud?”
If the PCs say that, yes they are, Kallyr relents, politely
dismisses Orlmarl, and tells the PCs they will have to perform
Orlanth’s rite to enter the Underworld instead.
The Fourth Belt

Minaryth continues, “The fourth belt describes accessing the
Corpse Stars. Orlanth’s Ring once held more stars; three parts
of Orlanth’s Ring have died since the Dawn. Two disappeared at
the Sunstop and the other was torn out during the battle between
Orlanth and the Red Goddess at Castle Blue. No one knows
much about them, they have not been contacted for generations;
and nothing survives in writing to preserve the memories.
“The Hellmouth is always dangerous, and now the Lunars are
usually there. There are two paths from the mouth through the
throat, though the chomping jaws may mean only one is open.
One is the womb of the mother into the Fields of Bliss. These are
part of the Green Age and hard to leave, and those who do exit
have to leave some part of themselves behind.
“The Cauldron of Pieces contains chopped up pieces of
gods; you need to choose from among the heads bubbling in
the cauldron. You will be choosing the three missing stars of the
Orlanth’s Ring. I believe this cauldron is in fact the Cauldron of
Ver, a treasure of the Vingkotlings: Orlanth took it from the Sea
Gods and it gave the life renewing powers of water.
“In the Green Age, I believe you will need to join the Namers,
and name the Corpse Stars.
“I consider the Cauldron of Pieces the wisest path, for it is
always dangerous to Heroquest to the Green Age. Many who
have heroquested there fail to return, and those who do come
back are often damaged somehow.
“I believe that you may be able to bring back the powers of
the Cauldron of Ver for your clan as well, by wagering part of
your soul in an attempt to steal its waters.”
The Fifth Belt

“The fifth belt concerns using Lorion, the Skyriver, to reach the
Sky World. The Resurrection Thrones are in the Sky World, so
you need to reach them, after you have obtained the Corpse Stars
in the Underworld. We needed a way to get you into the Sky
from the Underworld. Luckily for us, this is something the Red
Cow knows. The Red Cow have knowledge of Heler’s secret of
the Golden Tear, which he taught to Sshorga.”
Voranga Many-Sorrows explains the Golden Tear, “Heler
found a quiet place in the Middle Air and he prayed to his
mother, the Great Waters, and the powers behind those. He was
called to give his sacrifice, and he gave to humankind the ability
to weep the golden tear.
“I will tell you this secret now: the Golden Tear is not just a tear
like crying, but a tear like a rip in the fabric. Heler offered to give
Sshorga an entryway into the upper Sky World. He knew of that
opening because he was the Lord of the Golden Tear. He initiated
the Blue Dragon, Sshorga, into the secrets of the Young God.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

HOW ORLANTH CONQUERED THE STARS
When Orlanth wished to pass through the sky into the Inner
Heavens, he encountered much resistance. First, the Queen
of Heaven tested his resolve by sending Pur to seduce him.
Orlanth was not stupid and he knew her task, but he dallied
with her anyway, for he knew what he would need from her
for the future. When he was finished, he spurned her and
continued his upward spiral.
Next, the General of Heaven tested Orlanth’s strength
by sending Dergi against him, but Orlanth defeated him
easily. While Orlanth was fighting, Artia the Bat tried to
cover him, but Orlanth knew the Nightdaughter of old and
could not be blinded as Yelm was. He swept away the Bat
with little effort.
After the first three failed, Jagrekriand himself came
forward, released at last to fight the Liberator. He fought
with fire and mace against spear and lightning, and even
broke the wheels from Mastakos’ chariot. But, he could
not overcome Orlanth, who sent Jagrekriand screaming
from the sky in payment for what the Red God had done
to Umath, Orlanth’s father.
With the Red God cast down, the stars knew fear. In desperation, they released Sh’harkazeel the Sky Dragon against
Orlanth. It wrapped itself around Orlanth from his left foot
to his chin, encircling his body seven times and lifted its
great head to stare Orlanth in the face. But the Rebel was

“This is another secret: the Young God is a constellation
whose presence in the Sky River marks the beginning of the year.
“You must worship the Young God from the Underworld
with the Golden Tear rites. This will bring you to his realm in the
Sky River. From there you will be able to continue your quest.”
Voranga will initiate Orlanth and Heler worshippers into the
Young God’s sub-cult, which costs a Hero Point. The sub-cult’s
only magic is to open a door into the Otherworld at the Young
God’s home on the Sky River.
Minaryth turns to the PCs: “This is the moment where the
Red Cow must support you — otherwise you will not be strong
enough to pass the barrier between the worlds. Everyone here
will shed a tear for you when you ask it, and their sacrifice will
help you cross to the Other Side.”
Voranga provides the leader of the group with a gilded bowl,
which represents their clan’s support: “Use this bowl to take
everyone’s tears for this rite.”
The Sixth Belt

Minaryth now resumes speaking: “You must travel to the City in
the center of the Sky World. The sixth are some steps that lead
you across the Sky World. We only have guesswork for this part,
though this is the myth of How Orlanth Conquered the Stars. You
will arrive in the Heavens at the place of the Young God — we
know this is the Great Port of Princess Starry Eyes, which lies on
the boundary of the Middle and Other Worlds. From there, you
must reach the City, for that is where Rigsdal will be.”

not paralyzed like the other gods. He expanded his great
strength and freed himself from the monster, then with a
single blow chopped off its head. He left the corpse as a
symbol of his victory, and its blue blood flowed across the
sky like a flood, forever painting the sky dome.
Bearing the green head of the dragon in his left hand as
his trophy, Orlanth encountered no further resistance from
the stars. At last, he reached the Upper Sky, and demanded
that he be allowed to enter the sacred Inner Heavens.
The Mistress of Dance spoke for her lord and answered
that Orlanth could pass, but that he must join her lord’s dance
first. “Is it this one?” ask Orlanth, and did his war dance. So
violent were his movements that Silonia retreated in shock,
and Orlanth approached the Pole Star Gate.
“No,” said the Pole Star, “we would never do that dance,”
But when the stars showed Orlanth the dance Pole Star
wanted, they could only do Orlanth’s war dance.
Humbled and afraid, the dancers bowed to Orlanth. Rigsdal
swore allegiance to Orlanth, and revealed all of his powers
and secrets to the Great God. Rigsdal said, “Great Sir, command what you will, but leave my people to themselves.”
Orlanth did so command. “Dance,” he said, “to my tune
and lilt.” Then he played his tune that rocked the skies, and
the stars and their protectors all danced with him. Thus did
Orlanth gain his entryway into the Inner Heavens.

The Seventh Belt

“Next, on the seventh, we have entry to the Emperor’s hall.
The Resurrection Chairs are here. By placing the stars in the
chairs, we will be able to return them to the Sky. However,
the Emperor and his court do not permit anyone to take these
chairs and be reborn easily. You must convince Rigsdal of the
rightness of their return.”

PREPARATIONS
WHO ARE THE PCS?
The PCs will have to determine the mythic roles they are
representing in their quest. Kallyr will take the role of Rigsdal,
and be Sky for the preparations. She tells the PCs, “I cannot
accompany you into the Sky World though my heart belongs
there.” She absentmindedly touches the jewel in her forehead,
and then continues, “My duty lies to the south with High King
Broyan. I must lead Sartar against the Empire.”
Kallyr works with the PCs to assign them their roles, making
sure the key positions are taken. If you do not have enough PCs
for all the roles, pick clan or tribal leaders, preferably those the
PCs have relationships with.
The main hero of the quest is Orlanth, for the duration of
the quest the hero is the god. The quest also requires: Earth Axe,
Spear, and Sword. Ask the PCs why they might fit one of these
roles; look for an Ability, perhaps a Rune Affinity, a mundane
Ability or — at a stretch something metaphorical. The remaining

1621-1622

117

THE RED SWORD g
The sword of Cinsin the Red, this iron sword is a work of
art. The elaborate handle is made from iron, bronze, and
horn and decorated with red glass. The sword is carried
in a scabbard fashioned from iron and bronze. The bronze
plates are decorated with elaborate scrollwork and red glass.
The sword functions as a sidekick in play and has the
following abilities:
Runes

CLAN SUPPORT
The Red Cow support is to help the PCs cross to the Sky World
from the Underworld, by weeping their tears. The support takes
the form of a small golden bowl to catch the PCs tears (see above).

PREPARING FOR A HEROQUEST CHALLENGE

g Air 11W
Fight without wielder + 2
Cut through anything +1
Wounds never heal + 2
Other
Keyword: Proud 13
The sword is famous for its ability to fight without a
wielder. It also has a Flaw, which is that the sword wants
to Kill Telmori when it meets them — and is quite capable
of doing so without being wielded. The sword’s Flaw has
the same rating as its highest Ability.
Finally, the sword is cursed in that it will at some point
cause the death of its wielder. Cinsin the Red was the first
to die, when the sword flew from his hand because Cinsin
had spared Heljar the Telmori war-leader’s children. Many
kings, queens, and champions of the Cinsina have refused
to wield the sword for this reason. Whether or not simply
being lent the sword by Queen Ivartha is enough to invoke
this doom on the PC is up to the Game Master. Queen Ivartha
does wield the sword, and has accepted it will be her doom.

three roles are blanks — actually you can have any number of
PCs here, you just need to fill the core roles.
Minaryth advises the group they will need a trickster to help
them survive being devoured by the Hellmouth. Queen Ivartha
offers them Janara the Swarthy to aid them: “Beware Janara’s
schemes, but I have told her to help you pass the Hellmouth and
she will do that.”

TRIBAL SUPPORT
Queen Ivartha gives the PCs the Red Sword of Cinsin, for use
during the heroquest. This provides the PCs with a connection
to the tribal wyter and allows the PCs to draw upon the tribe’s
support during the heroquest.
The PCs can draw on the Cinsina’s Magic Resource rating,
once, during the quest, through the sword. Even the tribe’s Magic
Resource has suffered badly from the death of Orlanth and Ernalda;
however, enough residual magic remains for a rating of 1W2.
Vastyr Bloody-Shirt explains to the PCs: “With this Kallyr
has tricked us into supporting her too, and the Cinsina are
bound to the results good or ill. The queen is uncertain of its

118

wisdom; she has no love for Kallyr. This is the last roll of the dice
for the Cinsina, winner takes all.”
Kallyr Starbrow presents them with an inlaid and paneled
wooden box, inside are three coals. “These cold embers are from
Sartar’s brazier,” Kallyr tells them, “they will hold the light of the
stars until you can reach the Resurrection Thrones.”

Minaryth tells the PCs that when they are at the Cauldron of
Pieces, they can invoke a Heroquest Challenge to obtain the
Cauldron of Ver for their clan. The PCs have to determine which
hero will invoke this Challenge and what Ability he will stake.
The Ability should be a divine rune affinity, and imply some
form of change, renewal or life, such as: g Air, s Movement, 7
Water, or x Life. They need to prepare a ritually prepared item
to hold the heroquest reward. This should be tied in with the
objective of the PCs’ quest. The Game Master must determine
the Ability the heroquest enemy shall stake.

PERFORMING THE QUEST
TIMING
Windsday, Movement Week, Fire Season

Minaryth has identified Windsday of Movement week as the
most auspicious day to launch the quest.
This is Lawstaff Day, an Orlanthi Holy Day, when the priests
recite Orlanth’s laws; it precedes the tribal moot, when the tribal
king or queen dispenses justice. As such, the Cinsina gather at
this time to petition Queen Ivartha. Such a gathering is ideal for
harnessing the support of the tribe.
It is also a day associated with Orlanth as Thunderous, the
storm, and the Unfettered One, Larnste, the breaker of bonds.
What better day to free the winds?

THE ARMING OF ORLANTH
The Cinsina tribe gathers for this attempt; at this point only
working as a whole tribe does anyone have sufficient resources
left to provide the necessary sacrifices and people to make the
attempt. This is last ditch even for the tribe though, if this fails
then even the whole tribe working together will not be able to
make this kind of effort again.
The tribe gathers on Windsday of Movement Week of
Fire Season. The priests agree this combination gives the most
auspicious timing for freeing Orlanth with the aid of the stars.
Kallai Hairy-Breeks and Verlain Never-Doubt lead the tribal
ceremonies, which begin at dawn. The tribe has decided to try
this attempt at Larnste’s Table; this is the holy place of Orlanth the
Unfettered One, and Kallai and Verlain feel that this is the best
place to make an attempt to free Orlanth from his imprisonment.
Darna Longcoat acts as Ernalda and performs the Arming
of Orlanth (Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes, page 192). As she ‘arms’

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

Orlanth with his sword, spear, and axe, she calls forth the
appropriate PCs to stand at Orlanth’s side.
Kallyr stands in the middle of the ceremonial ground: the
diadem in her forehead glows with blinding starlight and she is
very hard to look at.

CROSSING THE THRESHOLD
Crisis and Rage

If Orlmarl the Charioteer helps, taking the role of Mastakos, the
PCs travel directly to the Courts of Silence. He instructs the PCs
to climb onto his chariot.
The chariot runs down Larnste’s Table, Orlmarl guiding the
horses from his position on the yoke. Everyone cheers as they
hurtle past. The charioteer takes them west, the chariot launching
into the air, as he calls to his horses, “Up Crisis, up Rage.”
They travel across Genertela, west across the vast oceans, on over
the Lands of Dusk and then plunge down into the Underworld.
The PCs will not recognize these places, but the Game Master
might wish to show them a map of their westward journey, passing
over the Rockwood Mountains, Felster Lake, and the Neleomi
Sea. They fly westward over the oceans from Genertela and across
Luathela. Mastakos guides his chariot over the Land of Dusk and
then plunges through the Gates of Dusk into the Underworld.
In the Underworld Orlmarl guides his chariot on past the
Nightwood, and over the River of Swords, until it arrives at
Havan Vor.
Orlanth’s Path

If the PCs refuse Orlmarl’s assistance, they must follow Orlanth’s
Path into the Underworld. The PCs leave the ceremony and
the world breaks apart around them. No stars illuminate the
Sky, only the baleful Red Moon. They follow the path west
through a ruined lifeless landscape of burnt homes and shattered
mountains until they reach the bottom of a great mountainous
cliff, rising high into the sky.
The rock wall is dark and ominous. At the base of the cliff is
a massive gate with huge bronze doors some 45 feet high. The
doors are slightly ajar and depict guardians and denizens of the
Underworld, along with the souls of the Dead. Great locks and
bronze door bolts can be seen on the front of the door; they
are clearly meant to bar the door from whatever is on the other
side of the gate. Standing in front of the gate are two demonic
guardians, each standing twice the height of the tallest man.
The first guardian is a monster with a canine face with bulging
eyes, a scaly body, a snake-headed tail, the talons of an eagle,
and four sets of wings. In his hands are a mace and an axe. This
demon is obviously male and is called Kaldar in Orlanthi myths.
The second demonic guardian is even more frightening to
behold. Her face is dread and awful, and glares terribly. She has
the fangs of a snake and the tusks of a boar, naked breasts, a hairy
body, hands stained with blood, long fingers and claws, and the
talons of an eagle. In her hands are writhing snakes. This demon
is obviously female and is called Sinjota in Orlanthi myths.
A success against a moderate resistance for a PCs’ divine rune
affinity should hint to them the myths tell that Kaldar and Sinjota
are hard to bypass working together, but much easier alone.

Kaldar and Sinjota are Nearly Impossible to bypass if they
are together. If the PCs are Defeated, the guardians ignore them
until the PCs try again to overcome them.
Distracting one of the guardians allows the other guardian
to be overcome more easily. For example, one hero may seduce
one of the guardians (at Moderate resistance), allowing the other
PCs to attack the remaining guardian (at Very High resistance).
The PCs may come up with other distractions; most likely, those
should be given a High resistance.
If a PC successfully seduces Kaldar or Sinjota, there should
be consequences. A woman who seduces Kaldar will give birth
the next year to a child destined to play a major role in the Hero
Wars. A man who seduces Sinjola will sire a demonic entity
who may end up aiding its father, or perhaps pursuing him,
depending on the Game Master’s wishes.
Assuming the PCs pass the Gate of Kaldar, the immense
bronze doors slam shut behind them and the sound of many
locks and bolts closing can be heard. The way back is shut
and the only way forward is an endless spiral stairway carved
out of the rock. The stairs lead down into the formless black,
winding around a seemingly bottomless pit. Hours, perhaps
days — perhaps weeks — are spent descending those stairs. It is
impossible to keep track of time or distance.

WELCOME TO THE
UNDERWORLD
The Underworld is always different every time it is entered. It is
a confusing irrational place, mysterious and fearful. Places move
around, and change shape and size. Certain places always are
present, but their relative location may change wildly. The Path
of Silence always leads to Havan Vor, but it does not always pass

THE UNDERWORLD
ORLANTH AND ERNALDA MAGIC
IN THE UNDERWORLD
In the Underworld, PCs who worship Orlanth and Ernalda
will sense the presence of their gods again — and be able
to do magic. The reason is simple: their gods are here,
and in the Underworld, they can reach them.

THE GUIDE OF SOULS h
Depending on the path into the Underworld they take,
the heroes most likely have a magical guide called a
psychopomp or ‘Guide of Souls’ who will lead them to
Havan Vor and beyond.
The Guide of Souls will not help the heroes overcome
any obstacle in the Underworld, but may help the heroes
understand what those obstacles are.
Although the guide is not specifically identified as Issaries,
all embody some part of his power as the Psychopomp.

1621-1622

119

THE SHADE OF GARAN THE LOW STAR .t
If the PCs do not guess, let them roll against their Red Cow
Clan keyword to realize the shade is that of their clan’s
helper in the Great Darkness, the Star Captain Garan.
Garan was a son of Helamakt and Senstena, one of the
Low Stars. He fell from the sky to aid Serias, a descendant
of Vingkot, whose clan had been scattered.
Garan and Serias formed a new tribe, the Garanvuli,

NARANGROSING
Narangros was the leader of a pack of demonic hounds
noted for their jaws and their howls that could be heard up
to the Sky. Narangros the Bad Dog killed Yinkin’s children
and murdered his lovers. The spirits of the Narangrosings
still plague those clans descended from Yinkin.
The Narangrosings, often called Hellhounds or bad
dogs, resemble nightmare visions of dogs, with red
eyes, powerful jaws to crush bone and black and red fur.
They vary in size: the smallest are the size of a man, the
larger ones are the size of a horse, and the largest can
stand twenty feet at the shoulder with ten foot long legs
and their head alone the size of a grizzly bear. Many of
the largest have pronounced features such as multiple
eyes, or ten-foot long tongues. The smaller ones tend to
leap into the attack in an attempt to knock their foe to the
ground before biting them. The larger ones rely on their
sheer mass to knock opponents to the floor.
Narangrosings speak with gruff hoarse voices, usually
to taunt and mock their opponents.
Narangrosing
Significant Abilities: Bite, Leap, Knockdown Foe,
Rend, Terrible Howl
Exceptional Abilities: Huge, Trample
Consciousness: Sentient
Relevant Statistics: 1000-1500 lbs, 6-20 feet tall

by Nightwood and over the River of Swords; sometimes it crosses
the River of Hate or even the Ocean of Despair. The deeper you
go in the Underworld, the closer to the formless Chaos of Predark
you get and the more irrational and fearful it becomes.

GENERAL ENVIRONMENT
In the Underworld, no sun, stars, or planets light up the sky.
Indeed, there is no sky above, only a vast empty blackness. The
air is both stagnant and poisonous, or howling and malevolent.
The ground is broken and treacherous, following no rational

120

one of the Star Tribes named for the Star Captains who
founded them.
Garan will be avuncular and try to give the PCs advice
as they travel the Underworld. He cannot directly help
them, only guide them to Havan Vor. The denizens of the
Underworld will not interfere with him and will seem to
show him respect.

geological rules. Jagged mountains like obsidian flints laid on
edge co-exist with endless swamps and bottomless pits.

THE GUIDE
If the PCs pass the Gate of Kaldar, on the far side they meet
a figure. At first an intense white light seems to emanate from
and surround a figure blocking the path blinding them. As the
light dims their eyes recover. The figure ahead appears to be a
herdsman by the alynx at his feet; he wears a simple skirt, with
an unscoured woolen cloak across his back and a broad-brimmed
hat on his head. He leans heavily on a spear.
“Come now,” he says to them, “you have many miles to go
and promises to keep!”
He begins walking, using his spear as a walking staff. His
alynx responds to his whistles, and he uses it to herd the PCs
forward and keep them on the path. The PCs have the feeling
they are being driven, like sheep, to their fate.
“Ifrendal points your way,” he tells them, pointing his spear
in the direction he wants the PCs to walk.
The black shadow cat sits up on its hind legs and says, “Follow
your captain.”

NIGHTWOOD
The path skirts the edge of an immense and foreboding dead
forest. It is shadowy and gloomy within bowshot of its outer
edge. To penetrate further is to leave behind almost all light,
leaving only a gray gloom. Patches of fog drift about, odd lights
appear and disappear. A path leads through the forest, glowing
with a silvery light. This is the ‘Silver Path’ Orlanth took when he
came to the Underworld on the Lightbringers’ Quest.
If the PCs pass through the forest, they hear the howling
of wild dogs, a sound that makes the hairs on the back of
their necks stand up. The howls are frightening and the PCs
must use an appropriate Ability against a High resistance, or
be penalized by fear and dread for the rest of the scene. The
PCs might try to elude their pursuers, and those who failed
the test might well want to, but the pack has their scent and
escape is a High or Very High resistance. If the PCs fail to elude
their pursuers, a pack of Narangrosings attacks them — the
Narangrosings are Telmori heroquesters, drawn to Nightwood
by their Red Cow enemies.
The Telmori heroquesters might include NPCs known to the
PCs — who become their heroquest foe. Goram White-Fang

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

This map shows the Path of Silence through the Underworld. The Dead pass between Nightwood and the imprisoned giants, and then
through the Plain of Black Ash until they reach the River of Swords. They cross the Perjurers Bridge and must pass Janak the Gatekeeper. If
they have not forsworn themselves, they can then enter the City of the Dead and receive judgment in the tower of Havan Vor.
might even be the enemy of one of the PCs, if a PC killed his
kinsman Black-Paws Helkos, or Jogar Sog.
When people heroquest on Holy Days they are one of the
faceless minions of the gods — individuals cannot be recognized.
However, when people heroquest as individuals from myth
they attract opponents of similar power. Over time, these same
people may be drawn into the quest as regular opposition to the
heroquester (and vice-versa). Although people take on the role
of a god on the Other Side, in these cases it becomes possible
to discern the identity of the person under the mask. For this
reason, the Orlanthi call this side-effect of heroquesting the Face
Dance and the foe is called a Face Dancer. It is also called Prey
Love, Spider’s Singer, etc.

PATH OF SILENCE
After their encounter with the Bad Dogs, the PCs continue on their
path until they see an endless procession of the recently deceased
— the ghosts of the dead and gone. They see brides, unwed youths,
and old men bowed down with suffering. There are girls with their
tender hearts freshly scarred by sorrow. They see great armies of
battle dead, stabbed by spears or slashed by swords; men of war
still draped in bloodstained armor. There are Sartarites and Lunars,

Volsaxings, Malkioni, Praxians, Esrolians, and Grazeland Pony
Breeders: men and women of every nation known to them. Some
are kings and thanes borne by noble steeds, others are naked or
wear meager scraps of cloth. Some are mere skeletons, other are
intact; all bear the markings of their Life and Death.
Trolls, broo, Beast Men, and every other mortal race join the
march of the Dead. All are united in death and silence; none talk
or quarrel. They all parade with a common purpose and goal: to
reach Havan Vor, the Court of Silence.
The PCs should join in the great endless parade of the dead
as it winds its way through the Underworld. It is a profoundly
disturbing procession as the PCs realize all mortals are humbled
by the power of Death and regardless of their deeds amongst
the Living, one day they too will again walk the Path of Silence.
Participating in the procession of the Dead threatens their
connection with the Living. The PCs must find some connection
to the world of the Living, be it their god, their rune affinities,
their community, their loved ones or their enemies. The contest
resistance level should be at least Moderate. Failure impairs their
connection with the world of the Living until they chose to
dedicate themselves to either the Life Rune or the Death Rune.
Success gives a Benefit of Victory to the Ability used — they
have withstood the power of Death.

1621-1622

121

RIVER OF SWORDS
After leaving the periphery of Nightwood, the PCs travel the
Path of Silence for a seemingly endless amount of time across a
plain of black ash. They cannot tell if it has been ten hours, ten
days, or even ten years. Here the Underworld is silent, without
weather, and without any change in the gray darkness.
An incredible din of crashing metal on metal startles the PCs!
Beyond the Path of Silence is a deep gorge. At the bottom flows
a river of turning swords, locked in an everlasting battle without
any participants. It is obvious that any who fall down into that
River of Swords will be sliced into pieces, and periodically
severed arms, legs, torsos, and heads bob in the violent current.
The Path continues parallel to the River, until it reaches a
great bridge made out of a million bones.
At the center of the bridge stands a giant skeleton holding
aloft an immense bone staff. As the Dead file by the skeleton, it
ignores many of them but others it knocks off the bridge with
its staff, into the chasm below. The PCs’ guide explains: “You
must prepare yourselves for the first judgment. Janak confronts
perjurers and oath breakers upon the bridge.”

JANAK AND THE PERJURERS BRIDGE
Janak tries to knock any PC who has committed perjury (or any
other violations of an oath) off the bridge. Discuss the matter with
your players. Have any of the PCs violated an oath? Have they
broken hospitality? Did they execute a member of the House of
Sartar (Ostling)? Were they leader of the PCs who betrayed Buthur
Dog-Nose and failed to bring Vogarth, Argrath, and Invarth to
justice for their banditry, despite their oaths to the House of Sartar?
If the answer is no, this should be a contest of Moderate
Difficulty against an appropriate Ability (Truth Rune, clan
keyword, Honorable, and so on). If the answer is yes, it is Nearly
Impossible to avoid being knocked into the River. Frame the
contest creatively; the PCs may try everything from a legal
argument to a combat with Janak! Provide Situational Modifiers
as appropriate.
If Janara is with the PCs, then Janak knocks her into the river
below. The PCs see Janara screaming and being sliced to pieces.

HAVAN VOR
After crossing the Perjurers Bridge, the PCs continue to follow
the Path of Silence across the bleak and blasted landscape of the
Underworld.
Eventually, they see the tower of Havan Vor: a great black
spiked tower reaching up endlessly beyond sight. Surrounding

the tower is a silent city of gray stone: the City of Dead. Here the
dead wait until they are summoned to Havan Vor for judgment.
A stone wall covered in brightly colored murals and basreliefs depicting protective gods and demons surrounds the City
of the Dead. A great open gate leads into the City and towards
Havan Vor. Around the gate are carved powerful protective spells
placing the city under the authority of entities variously named
Darhudan and Darhudana, Grandfather and Grandmother
Mortal, Daka Fal, and Havan Vor.
If Orlmarl took the PCs he leaves them here at the City of
the Dead.
The Shade of Garan will tell the PCs, “You must demand
entrance of Culsvula, the porter of gates of the Tower of Havan
Vor, and must pass through the tower to go further. Remember,
you must not appeal to your gods for aid in your quest when
before Darhudan and Darhudana, and demand to be cast into
the pit — for that is the way to the throat.”
The City is vast with hundreds of thousands of tombs,
mausoleums, monuments, crypts, sarcophagi, urns, and other
buildings of the dead. Above everything looms the round black
tower of Havan Vor with its all-embracing gates.
At the gate to the tower, great golden doors depict the
judgment of the Dead by Darhudan and his sister Darhudana in
a series of bas-relief friezes.

CULSVULA
The door is closed and the gate is watched by a winged guardian,
a beautiful bare-chested female carrying a key and a flaming
sword: she is Culsvula, the porter of Havan Vor. When the PCs
ask to enter, she demands who they are, and says: “Why have you
come to the Court of No Return? What makes you travel the
road from which no traveler departs?”
After stating their reasons, the PCs enter Havan Vor, the grim
Court of Silence. They are in a vast hall, with hundreds of doors
leading out. High above, thousands of gods watch from their
gallery. In the center is a great dais where Darhudan, King of
the Dead, sits upon his high throne. To one side sits his sister
Darhudana and on the other sits his scribe.

THE KING OF THE DEAD
Darhudan wears a crown of Darkness set with golden jewels
and his face is a mirror. He is garbed in a voluminous black robe
bearing magical signs upon it. He has a great key ring with keys for
500 doors, each of which lead to another part of the Underworld.
Around him throng the dead; some on their feet, some seated,
all clustering around the Judge of the Dead, silently pleading for
his verdicts. When the PCs approach the dais, the King of the

KNOCKED INTO THE RIVER OF SWORDS
Most likely a perjuring PC is doomed. If Janak knocks a
PC off the Bridge of Bones into the River of Swords, he
will be damaged to a degree commensurate with his level
of failure.

122

A PC who is knocked into the River of Swords eventually finds himself out of the heroquest. He will have a
Consequence of Defeat from his wounds in the River of
Swords that require special healing at a Chalana Arroy cult
temple or similar great magic.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

Dead addresses them: “This is the realm of shadows, of sleep and
perpetual night. Here you must confront your deeds in the world
of Men. Those who were honest and fair will have their gods to
plead for them. The wicked will stand alone, condemned.”
Before they can speak, Darhudan faces the PCs and their
deeds, both good and ill, are reflected in his face. Ask each PC
to remind everyone of his or her most righteous and infamous
deeds — these are reflected in the mirror-face of Darhudan.
Darhudan then asks, “Who shall plead for these mortals?”
This is the time for the PCs to spurn the support of their gods
and choose their own path. This is difficult; the traditions of Havan
Vor are ancient and innate to all mortals. However, the death of
Orlanth has upset the Great Compromise, and as a result PC
worshippers of Orlanth or Ernalda find challenging the established
order easier. A PC must succeed in a contest using their Air, Earth,
Water, Movement, Death, Fate, or Disorder Rune. For an Orlanth
or Ernalda initiate the resistance is High; for other initiates using
these runes is Very High. Other runes are Very High for Orlanth
and Ernalda initiates, Nearly Impossible for others. More than one
PC can try, only one need succeed. If all the PCs fail, their gods will
plead for them and they return home having failed the heroquest.
If a hero succeeds, he renounces the protection of the gods
and demands to be cast into the Pit. The Dead raise unearthly
cries and Darhudan cries out: “Not since the Disrupter ransacked
my hall have the Living dared challenge me so!”
Darhudan orders the PCs to be cast into the Pit. A host of
demons seize the PCs and carry them to an iron door covered
in evil-looking symbols. Other demons unlock its many bolts
and wards. As the door creaks open, Darhudan speaks again to
the PCs: “The gate to Hunger, Madness, Fear, and Disease now
stands open wide and for you it shall be easy to pass.”
With that, the PCs are thrown through the door; it is
slammed shut behind them, and they hear the many locks being
engaged one by one.

DEHORI
Dehori are children of the god Dehore. Cloaked ever
in shadow and muttering in darkness, Dehore is commander of the shades, and sends his minions to those
who serve him.
A Dehori’s physical presence is made entirely of darkness so they are essentially insubstantial creatures formed
from out of the shadows or inky blackness. Fashioned
from the Darkness they can be dissipated by light, and
vanish in bright sunlight. Dehori form different shapes to
perform different tasks — often they appear as a hooded
man or woman, floating in a pool of darkness. Up close
they assume a frightening countenance, with large mouths
of razor sharp teeth and wide flaring nostrils with which
they sniff the air. Few have eyes.
They attack by engulfing its victim, draining the heat
from their body, exposing them to hypothermia and
frostbite, and exposing him to visions of horror and
madness. Tendrils of darkness flow into a victim’s mouth,
nose, eyes and ears from the Dehori. Some victims die
of exposure, others shock and the remainder go mad.
Because the Dehori flows around weapons, fists, and
armor, resisting a Dehori requires abilities representing
physical or mental toughness. Red Cow clan members
at least have Courage at the same rating as their Red
Cow Clan keyword.
They usually appear en masse, and exhibit or incite
terror, hunger, lust, thievery, and other base emotions.
Dehori
Significant Abilities: FearShock, Freeze,
Insubstantial

THE PIT OF HELL

Exceptional Abilities: Move through Shadows

CORRIDOR OF FEAR

Consciousness: Sentient

The PCs find themselves in a stone passageway leading down in
the darkness. As they stumble downwards their hands feel the
contours of a strange and frightening relief cut into the walls.
The corridor emanates dread and fear, and the PCs feel terror
welling up within them.
If Janara was sliced to ribbons in the River of Swords then she
reappears here, stumbling through the dark. She tells the PCs
that though she was torn to pieces, enough parts of her collected
on the shores of the river, which were able to crawl together so
that she could reassemble herself. She then stole Culsvula’s keys,
and jumped into the pit before Darhudan could speak to her.
Janara can make light magically, and she creates a small glow
above her hand allowing the PCs to find their way, and to see the
bas-reliefs along the corridor depicting various hideous demons of
the Underworld. Janara seems to find the horrific pictures amusing.
Dehori demons stalk this corridor, seeking out new victims to
witness their horror show. Each PC should face a Dehori demon
before leaving the Corridor of Fear. Only allow those PCs who
have already overcome a Dehori to Augment or assist another.

Relevant Statistics: Insubstantial

Weaknesses: Light

THE SWAMP OF DESPAIR
Eventually the passageway opens into a vast, stinking swamp. The
waters are choked with the bodies of the damned upon which
feed a host of demons, monsters, trolls, and other Underworld
horrors. The damned struggle in the black goop of the swamp,
limbs flailing wildly, and gulping down sludge when they try
to speak until they are dragged again below the surface. The air
above the swamp is poisonous from the reeking odors below.
Describe the journey here as an Arduous Auto-Success.

THE HELLMOUTH
After the swamp, the PCs make their way to an enormous
fortress, ringed with high jagged walls of iron. A high stairway
leads to the only gate: the ravening maw of a great iron-fanged
monstrous beast with three eyes. Its jaws open and shut with a

1621-1622

123

ELEVENS
The Emperor Vanyoramet founded the Elevens before the
Dawn. Originally, they were recruited from criminals and
misfits; over time, they became a way of foreigners and
others without status joining society. The Alkothi offer
captured slaves a chance to join the Elevens — their souls
are ritually slain in the Great Enclosure. The worthy remain
with Shargash while their bodies and minds live on to
serve him in the Middle World — the mortal remains of
the unworthy are burned. Elevens are walking dead men
until they finish eleven years’ service. Their experience of
the Underworld makes them almost without fear or mercy.
The Elevens train for close quarter combat: mace,
shield, and dagger. They wear ankle-length scale mail
coats and helmets. Their beards are long and elaborately
curled and their skin is coated in ash and smoke, giving
them a pallid gray appearance.
They worship Shargash, the storm and war god of
the Dara Happan pantheon. Shargash is the God of War,
the source of all fighting arts, Yelm’s most violent son,
Shargash participated in the making of the world, and
in the making of Alkoth and its traditions. He is always
trouble, ready to turn his violence against any foe.
His worshippers can pull down sky shattering bolts
of thunder, inspire worshippers to acts of fanaticism,
and wield the mace and spear of Shargash himself. They
can use Shargash’s magic to manipulate smoke and fire.
Elevens
Significant Abilities: Berserk, Dead Man Walking,
Fearless, Furious Blows of Shargash, Knife Fighting,
Mace and Shield Fighting, Scale Armor, Sky Bolt

deafening clamor like the crack of a whip. The demonic beast
could devour entire armies without sating its hunger.
Lunar heroquesters guard the Hellmouth to deny Orlanthi
passage. Tatius the Bright has dispatched a unit of Elevens, from
the Dara Happan city of Alkoth. There are, as their name implies,
eleven of them. The Elevens should be High or Very High resistance.
Janara exclaims: “Elevens! Walking Dead Men from Alkoth.
Servants of Shargash!” Then she skips past the surprised Elevens,
scattering flower petals she pulls from a pouch, and leaps into
the Hellmouth before they can react. The surprised guards turn
to the PCs and attack.
If the PCs climb the stairs, the maw opens and closes
furiously. Warn them that anything entering that iron maw will
be devoured and mangled. At the same time, the maw is the only
gate into the fortress; the PCs cannot fly over it for there is no
real Air, they cannot dig under it, for below is the stone of the
Underworld. The PCs must pass through the Hellmouth.
If they do not, they will be trapped in the Swamp of
Despair, without any chance to return to Havan Vor or the
Middle World. Once they enter the maw, the Hellmouth

124

devours and consumes them — an experience of horrible pain
and wrenching disorientation.
Describe to the PCs the terrible pain they experience as their
bodies are pierced, then crushed by the iron teeth; limbs are
severed, blood spurts forth; again and again the teeth close on
their bodies until death comes, a blessed relief from the agony.
In The Throat.

Janara the Swarthy reassembles the PCs — some might awake
screaming as they experience the horrific process of having their
mangled organs stuffed back into body cavities, or limbs reattached. Janara smiles sweetly throughout: “Hush now baby
don’t you cry, mummy will kiss it better.”
As the first PC comes around they witnesses the somewhat
disturbing sight of Janara pulling the next set of body parts from a
sack, collating them together (and getting confused as to which part
goes with which corpse). She then urinates on the body, claiming
that is an important part of the magic, before breathing into the
body’s mouth, which Janara calls the ‘kiss of life.’ The body parts
join and the ‘victim’ awakens, coughing and spluttering, soaked in
urine, but otherwise unharmed by the ordeal.
The PCs find themselves in the Throat, a long tunnel, its walls
seem to be made of rock, but pulse disturbingly with life when
touched and shake if injured, throwing everyone off their feet.
In the throat, there is a choice to make between the Cauldron
of Pieces and the Fields of Plenty. Following the instructions on
the belt, the Cauldron lies to the right and the Fields to the left.
Janara may decide to choose for everyone else, re-assembling
him or her once she has chosen a path. Janara wants to go to the
Fields of Plenty — to experience the pleasures available there. The
PC in the role of Orlanth must succeed at a contest to prove his
authority; Janara will only obey the PC (even if they are still in
pieces) if she is sufficiently afraid of what punishment will befall her.
If the PCs decide not to go to the Fields of Plenty, Janara will
decide to betray them later as an act of revenge.

THE CAULDRON OF PIECES
The right hand branch of the throat exits onto gray plains of ash.
They seem featureless, dunes of the ash stretch in every direction
and there are no obvious landmarks. Overhead, one of the PCs
surely notices Orlanth’s Ring filling the otherwise dark sky above
them. The ring moves through the sky, and the PCs have to
follow it to find their way across the ash plains. The journey
takes seven days and nights — though on the ash plains, there is
no sun in the sky and it is hard to determine the passage of time.
After seven days, the PCs realize the sky above is filled with
clouds, and amidst them is a whirling storm that twists and
turns. The wind force increases as the PCs head toward the eye of
the storm, threatening to knock them off their feet. At the center
of the storm, the winds drop again, and the PCs are within the
eye of the storm — the Eye of Orlanth. Lying under the heart
of the storm is an immense cauldron, with diminutive figures
scurrying around it. Initiates of Orlanth feel the presence of their
god in the storm above them — and know he watches them.
The cauldron is an immense bronze pot, its outer surface
etched with scenes from the stories of gods, many of whom are

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

Dwarves swarm over the Cauldron of Pieces
now broken and chopped up inside it. Floating in
a mysterious blue fluid with an oily rainbow sheen
are miscellaneous body parts, the bits and pieces
of broken gods jumbled and mixed together. Only
the severed heads bobbing in the liquid are easy to
identify. Cranes hang over the cauldron.
The cauldron is as deep and limitless as the
oceans — indeed this is known to the Orlanthi
as the Cauldron of Ver, the Drinking Giant’s
Cauldron — Orlanth took it from the Sea Gods
and it has their life renewing properties.
Next to the cauldron is a huge crucible sitting
over an intense furnace and below the crucible are
three molds. It should be obvious to the PCs that
their goal is to melt parts from the cauldron in the
crucible and then fill the molds.
Dwarves (Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes, page
261 and Sartar Companion, pages 112-113)
swarm over the cauldron tending to pipes, tanks,
cranes, and other humming and pulsating devices
which crackle with energy. Most of the dwarves
wear tough dragon-hide aprons; the pockets on
the front stuffed with tools. They carry strange
protective equipment such as brass goggles fitted
with obsidian lenses slung around their neck or
gas masks, with long snouts and hoods made from
leather, and small circular crystal covered eyeholes.
A number of overseers in robes and tall hats consult
charts, occasionally ordering a dwarf here or there.
The dwarves order large stone golems called
Jolanti around, using them to shift large objects
into and out of the cauldron, stoke the furnaces
under the crucible, etc. A host of tiny humanoids
swarm over the apparatus, their hands and feet
formed into the tools they need to polish, tighten,
and scrub the cauldron.
The machinery is operated by means of a
huge rotating drum of brass, over twenty feet

high, which is accessed from a platform. Anyone
standing on the platform can see into the cauldron
and rotate the drum by turning a wheel. When the
wheel is turned, the Jolanti chained to a capstan
begin walking in circles, causing gears to grind,
and the whole drum to rotate. A series of runes are
inscribed on the drum, some glowing, and when a
rune passes the operator on the platform, it locks
for a brief moment, before clicking on if the wheel
is turned again. If the wheel is left on a lit rune, a
lever is unlocked and pulling it causes a grabber
suspended over the cauldron to begin collecting
the required parts from the cauldron, dropping
them into the crucible. Jolanti take the strain on
a pulley to move the grabber. The parts melt in
the crucible, and the molten god-bones are then
poured into a mold: for remaking.
The players might believe that the machinery
is a puzzle to be solved — it is not and to avoid
wasting time the Game Master should explain its
workings so that they can operate it.
The lit runes correspond to the runes of the
Corpse Stars below; selecting one of those runes
selects one of the Corpse Stars at which point one
of the coals Kallyr gave the PCs will begin to glow.
The dwarves ignore the PCs if they climb onto
the platform; they are simply robotic workers,
toiling away at their given tasks. If the PCs try
to speak to them they mutter about the ‘work
schedule’ and ignore them. The dwarves only
react if attacked or if the PCs try to interrupt the
working of the machine.
Operating the machine counts as interfering
with it and will cause the iron dwarves to attack. The
PCs may have filled one of the molds at this point.
In the latter case, a squad of iron dwarves,
assigned to protect the workings here will attempt
to kill or drive off the PCs. The iron dwarves wear a

1621-1622

SEEKING PASSAGE
Remember you cannot
bring material items
back from the Other
Side. PCs might want
to take the dwarven
blackpowder weapon.
They can do so, but the
weapon only remains in
their possession whilst
they are on the Other
Side, and cannot be
cemented. The best
option is to treat a
flintlock pistol as the
‘special effect’ for the
result of any contest. If
the PC loses the Benefit
of Victory, he has run
out of powder or slugs
for the weapon, or it
has misfired.

125

suit of armor: breastplate, greaves, vambraces, and closed helmet,
and carry two-handed axes and war hammers. In addition, one
of the squad carries a single shot flintlock pistol that shoots an
iron slug. The dwarf also carries reloads of black powder and
iron. They are a Very High resistance in a fight.
Presuming the PCs drive away, or otherwise overcome the
iron dwarves, they can attempt to fill the molds from the pieces
and make new gods.
The Cauldron of Ver

One of the PCs might decide to try to recreate the Cauldron of
Ver here. The Cauldron of Pieces is itself too big to move, but a
PC might try to take some of the liquid, assuming that it is where
the power resides and not the container itself. There is no easy way
down to the liquid in the cauldron, but the cranes and pulleys
might allow the PCs to lower one of their number to the surface.
By lowering someone towards the surface, that PC might
be able to scoop water from the cauldron into a container. The
swirling waters of the cauldron resist being taken from it; they
pull at anything that touches the surface threatening to suck the
PC into the cauldron. Treat this as a HeroQuest challenge. The
PC needs to have declared the Ability before the quest began:
an Air, Movement, Water, Harmony, or Life divine affinity. The
resistance of the waters of the cauldron is Very High.
If the PC succeeds their community wyter gains a new
Ability, Cauldron of Ver, and knows a magical rite that allows

Babester Gor

126

MOUNTAINS OF THE MOTHER
The Mountains of the Mother is the sleeping form of the
Earth goddess. Heortlings might recognize this as their
goddess Ernalda, but to a Praxian this mountain range
is the Eiritha Hills and the Gash is the Paps. These are
the same place, one in the Underworld and one in the
Middle World, and both give access to the Green Age
from within the Womb of the Mother.

them to renew or restore life as part of its Magic Resource. The
Benefit of Victory bolsters the community Magic Resource
rating. The water can use the power to heal injury at the normal
resistance, even to resurrect the dead, though this faces a Nearly
Impossible resistance. The ritual involves a cauldron; the worth
of the cauldron can provide a Situational or Plot Augment. For
example if the PCs obtain enough bronze to make a bronze
cauldron, give the cauldron a Plot Augment of +W

THE FIELDS OF PLENTY
THE GASH
To reach the Fields of Plenty from the Hellmouth, the PCs
head across country to the Mountains of the Mother. The same
featureless, dunes of the gray ash stretch in every direction.
However, there is one obvious landmark: the Mountains of the
Mother notable for the twin Peaks of Milk, the Wide Hip Cliffs,
and the Ample Legged Hills. What first seems a small set of black
hills in the distance grows as the PCs approach until they realize
that the snow-capped Peaks of Milk are over 12,000’ high.
If present Janara japes, jests, and indulges herself as they travel
— she seems happy to be headed toward the Fields of Plenty.
Between the spurs of the Ample Legged Hills, in the Wide
Hip Cliffs lies the Gash: a vertical slit in the rock, 6,000’ high
but only 100’ wide. It is dark within, but many of the PCs, the
men particularly, will experience a sense of dread at entering.
If Janara is present, she cracks jokes about traveling into the
Gash and into the Womb of the Mother, lightening the mood
of dread.
As they approach the Gash there is a blood-curdling scream
and Babeester Gor steps forth from the darkness. She carries
a great double bladed axe, which she wields with both hands,
coated in gore. She has painted her limbs and arms in black and
red and is taller than any mere human.
“Mortals, go away,” she cries, “this place is forbidden to you.”
The PCs notice she wears a necklace made from dried and
withered male genitalia.
“I am Babeester Gor, daughter to Ernalda, who sleeps. Who
are you mortals to tread in this sacred place, and what do you so
foolishly seek from the gods?”
To pass Babeester the PCs must convince her that their need
is great enough for her to relax her guard, or defeat her in combat.
If anyone has harmed the Earth, then Babeester attacks
him or her, without negotiation. She will not strike a deal with
enemies of the Earth, for she is the Avenging Daughter.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

Fighting Babeester Gor is a Nearly Impossible
resistance for any man, though only Very High
for a woman as Babeester’s best fighting magic
works against men. If a male PC suffers a Major
Defeat then Babeester Gor mutilates the body,
cutting off the genitalia, and draining the blood
to make her blood beer. A PC Defeated in this
manner will need a full season to recover from
their injuries in the Middle World but will also
be rendered impotent, and no healer will be able
to reverse that, only another heroquest. Babeester
will happily fight a champion, but she will also
fight the PCs as mob, in that event, she will pay
Multiple Opponent Penalties. The best strategy
for the PCs is to work together, with male PCs
striking first and female PCs striking at the end,
with Babeester suffering the highest penalties
against her, and the lowest resistance.
Convincing Babeester Gor is a Nearly
Impossible resistance for any man, but only a Very
High resistance for an Ernalda initiate. Ask the
PCs for their arguments to convince Babeester,
award a situational bonus to arguments that the
women and children of the clan will suffer if they
do not return to aid the people or other similar
argument.
Babeester is the guardian and avenger of the
Earth and is swayed by appeals to protect mothers
and children; she is little convinced by oratory
or rhetoric and these abilities suffer a Stretch
penalty; use of an e Earth Rune affinity should
get a situational bonus; however, use of an g Air
Rune divine affinity is a Stretch: “You have failed
to protect the Earth, do not speak, you will only
make more false promises.”
If the PCs fail to pass Babeester, Janara steps
forward: “I will give my life Daughter, so you know
how serious our people’s need is. Come make your
beer from my blood.”
With that, she pulls a knife from her boot
and slits her own throat. Blood spurts in an arc,
spraying across the ashy ground. Janara’s knees
collapse and she falls to the dirt. Where her
blood falls, the ground turns green with grass and
new shoots. Babeester leaps forward and catches
Janara’s blood in a pot.
When the last of Janara’s blood drains away she
stands up: “Your companion’s sacrifice shows to
me the depth of your need. Pass then.”
As the PCs approach the Gash she says: “You
will not wake Ernalda from her sleep, this is not
the time. Pass though, in submission and under
the shadow of the axe and swear that you will not
injure the Earth, your mother.”
She makes each of the PCs pass under her great
axe, and swear an oath not to injure the mother. If
the PCs break this oath Babeester Gor will appear

and attack them, as above. This oath also binds
the Cinsina tribe, who support this heroquest,
in This World. If the PCs injure the Earth in the
Otherworld Babeester Gor herself appears to
attack them; if they injure the Ernalda cult in the
Middle World, then the Babeester cult will send
avengers against the tribe, and perhaps Unani and
Abylgani (see Sartar Companion, page 253).

THE WOMB OF THE MOTHER
Entering the womb, the PCs find themselves in
the dark. As they head away from the entrance,
they find the light of the cave mouth fading. In
the dark, the PCs discover their senses begin to
fail: soon they can’t see, hear, smell, or touch
anything — including each other. This sensory
isolation continues until the PCs’ very sense of
self fades away.
Slowly the PCs begin to experience again: but
they have lost all sense of self. They find themselves
in the creation time of the Green Age: lush plants
and exotic animals surround them, everything is
tinged with emerald shades, but the PC has no
sense of where they end and a plant or animal
begins. It is all simply an experience of being.
There is no language, for words need someone to
name the parts, and no one knows there are parts.
It is a world before separation, where the binary
opposites of the real world have no meaning. The
cosmic unity is idyllic; the PCs know no hunger,
fear, anger, desire, pain, sadness, or misery. They
also do not know fullness, courage, indifference,
pleasure, happiness, or joy. These opposites are
meaningless, life just is. Reach out and there is food
for the taking from the nearest branch; slaughter,
butcher and eat an animal and it rises from its own
bones shortly afterwards.

INJURING THE
EARTH
What does it mean to
‘injure the Earth’? If
someone through action
or inaction allows a
god-talker or priestess
of the Earth to come
to harm, a pregnant
or nursing mother
(animal or human),
an innocent (any child
before initiation),
or profanes sacred
ground Babeester will
determine the PCs to
have broken their oath.

FULL DISH AND SPOON
The Bright Emperor enslaved everyone and
demanded absolute obedience from everything. But, there was one force he could not
control, and that was freedom. One little
freedom became many, and they began to
bring bigger freedoms. Finally, the Great
Sky lay upon the Fertile Earth and begot
Umath Ever-Changing, the First Storm, who
would bring change to the Bright Emperor’s
stagnant realm. Umath was an upstart god
at first, with only a few crazy and dangerous
brothers at his side. Gradually he gathered
gods and men to his band and with their
help reshaped the world.

1621-1622

127

RICH SWAN

THE MISHAP HOUSE

At first, no one was ever hungry, for Asrelia contained
enough to feed everyone. But, suddenly some people
were hungry! Ernalda stopped the hunger by teaching
people how to do the right ceremonies. These allowed
people to find her sister Esrola, who had been trapped
behind a terrible mask by Angdartha, the cruel servant
of the Bright Emperor. This was the first worship, one of
the actions separating mortals from deities.

A PC who fails to awaken falls into a coma in the Middle
World and cannot be woken. The clan’s healers tend to
them, saying they have fallen into the Mishap House.
Once per season the PC can re-attempt the roll to awaken.
Recovering at this point does not result in Illumination;
instead the PC awakes in the Middle World from their
coma and is likely to experience depression and a feeling
of being sundered. The Game Master might want to give
them a Directed Improvement of a Flaw of Sundered from
the All to reflect their depression.
A player whose character is trapped in a coma may
wish to play another character until their former character recovers.

Awakening

How do the PCs experience consciousness, the notion of the
self, or individual? The clan questionnaire gives an answer as to
how a PC’s clan first discovered notions of self: Asrelia handed
out treasures to the ancestors. The Red Cow’s ancestors received
the Full Dish and Spoon — their consciousness began with the
masculine universe: war and violence. PCs from other clans will
have others (for example women who married in, may have
received the Rich Swan). Depending on that ancestral choice,
the PCs experience one of the two events below.
The PCs find they are suffocating, unable to breathe and
confined, trapped, and unable to move. A sense of panic, a
need to escape overwhelms them: a desire to be born from
the womb of the mother and into the world. The PC must
tear a place for himself or herself in existence or risk being
imprisoned. The PC should use one of their runes to do this;
the resistance to the PC’s attempt should be Very High as the
Universe resists being torn by the individual’s entry into it.
Give a Situational Modifier of +6 to anyone using the g Air
Rune to break free, for this primal, violent act was how the g
Air Rune emerged. At worst someone can always use their Red
Cow Clan keyword here, this is an ancestral event they have
experienced on Holy Days.
The PC begins to experience a terrible gnawing in their
belly, an intense pain, which is accompanied by feelings of
weakness and tiredness. The PC is experiencing hunger for
the first time. Feeding means the PC must recognize their
difference from the plants and animals around them, and even
the parts of those plants and animals. Failure risks the PC
falling into a coma from starvation. The PC should use one
of their runes to do this; the resistance should be Very High
as Angdartha seeks to hide Esrola’s bounty from the PC. Give
a Situational Modifier of +6 to the e Earth Rune, for with it
comes understanding of the rituals to prepare food such that
the cycle of life will be respected and new food will come from
the waste parts of the old.
Other

A PC may come up with their own way to awaken into full
consciousness. As above, the PC should use one of their runes
to do this; but any PC that does gains an Impaired State of
Adversity (-6) to their Red Cow Clan keyword: they have put
their own sense of personal identity before the clan.

128

Illumination

This experience of being reborn into the Green Age is
overwhelming for the PCs. It is an experience of the All. The All
is the cosmic unity preceding the division of the world into self
and other, us and them. Such an experience challenges people
who normally experience the world of individual consciousness
and identity; they realize the convenient divisions of the world
into nameable things: runes, animals, peoples, etc., is but a pale
shadow of the cosmos. They see love and hate for being the
illusions they are.
A PC who awakens has become Illuminated. A common
manifestation is the awareness that the normal barriers and
separations that differentiate the world’s things can be ignored.
An Illuminated individual views ethics, morals, mythology,
deity, magic, and the world in a solipsistic manner.
This is one of the great dangers of the Green Age, and this
kind of experience can lead to enlightenment or madness. This
is one reason why priests warn of the dangers of heroquesting
to the Green Age; the Lunar Empire heroquests to the Green
Age because it prepares its worshippers for this kind of cosmic
revelation.
Janara

If Janara died, she re-appears here, simply telling the PCs that
she, “Drank my own blood beer, and thus returned to life,
tricking Babeester with her own trick.” She refuses to elaborate
further. Confronting the All seems to have little effect on Janara
who simply says, “All the world is an illusion, otherwise there
would have been none of us to ever think we were.”

THE GREEN AGE
The Green Age is dangerous for all actions here have
consequences. If the PCs act outside the boundaries of this
episode, for example one of them hunts and eats one of the
strange animals encountered by the Namers, the Game Master
should create long-term consequences for the Red Cow in the
Middle World — deriving from the nature of their actions in
the Green Age.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

THE NAMERS
A wandering group approaches the PCs. Their leader is Genert,
a very large and handsome figure, who carries a staff from which
living vines grow; he glows with a green light and he introduces
himself and his band — the Namers: “We are creating a Universal
Tongue in which all might speak. Come now and help us name
what we find, because to different people are given different
names. Join our song of universal creation.”
Genert and his band wander happily throughout the paradise
of the verdant gardens of the Green Age, naming, mainly the plants
and animals they find. The air is clear and filled with pleasant
scents, though the sky seems somehow lower than the PCs are
used to, almost within easy reach. The light is soft and diffuse. The
gentle people here lead a Paleolithic lifestyle; they use stone, wood,
and bone tools and live by hunting animals or gathering plants,
yet they harm nothing for whatever they take is reborn or regrows.
Everyone and everything can speak to each other, because there
is only one way to communicate and everything is able to do so.
Genert’s melodious and harmonious band includes: Flamal
the Lord of Plants, Seyotel the Song of the Forest, Ronance the
Good Shepherd, and a family who call themselves the ThreeBean Circus. Seyotel leads the great song as the Namers wander
and Genert and the others add the new names of animals and
plants to her harmony. Bright flowers bloom and beautiful birds
and butterflies dance around the singers. The PCs recognize
some of the creatures and vegetation but much are unknown to
them: giant armadillos, immense land sloths, giant birds, and
bear-dogs, some sort of deer-aardvark, a legless cat-like creature
slithering on the earth like a snake, and more.
As they meander through the land Genert occasionally turns
to one of the band to name what they have found, sometimes
they answer, adding a new name to the song, and sometimes they
seem stumped and Genert nods and bestows names for them.
The Field of the Corpse Stars

Genert and his band come across a field of Corpse Stars during
this expedition, and Genert asks the PCs to name the stars there.
To know the name of the god, the PC must succeed in a roll
against his or her Storm Tribe mythology Ability. Any PC who is
an initiate of a Storm Tribe cult can use their divine rune affinity
for their knowledge of mythology (see Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes
page 79). A successful mythology roll also tells the PC the facts
about the Corpse Stars below.
If they know the name of the god, and speak it, Genert nods,
and the PC realizes that a coal in their box has ignited.
The consequences of naming the first corpse star encountered
may surprise the PCs, until they realize naming it adds it to their
collection.
If the PCs fail to name three Corpse Stars Janara will name
any missing stars. The stars that Janara will name are in order:
Varnaval, Tanian, and Korolful.

THE CORPSE STARS
These gods are not all forgotten, though some are; however, even
those who are remembered are not worshipped by the Orlanthi
today, except perhaps collaterally. They died during the Gods
War, and so can now be found here. Many gods died during the

Gods War, so the presence of a broken Air God amongst the
corpses of the stars is hardly surprising.
The choices here are long term — and should be reflected in
your game. Orlanth’s Ring will contain its full complement of
eleven stars following Orlanth’s liberation at the Battle of Pennel.
Restoring these stars to Orlanth’s Ring will be a first step
in restoring them into the ranks of actively worshipped gods.
At first they will receive collateral worship as part of the Three
New Stars — however, as the Hero Wars progress they could be
worshipped as individuals again.
It takes 500 worshippers before any of these deities amass
enough worshippers to become a sub-cult of Orlanth or a similar
deity. It would take 2000 worshippers before any of these deities
could support a small cult on their own. Of course, it is up to
you and your players whether that happens in the Hero Wars.

g Varnaval the Shepherd King
This is the corpse of Varnaval, the Shepherd King. Varnaval tamed
the rams and hitched them to his chariot, raided the foreigners and
forced them to pay tribute. Aided by the Iron Ram, he waged war
upon the foreigners and conquered the world, until they murdered
him with demons and sorcery.
Varnaval has no worshippers now; he was replaced by the
worship of a foreign deity Heler, and in particular Voriof the
Shepherd and Uroth the Blue Ram.

, Siwend the Hunter
Siwend first came to notice when Orlanth chose him as one of his
Discovery Band. Siwend was already carrying his bow and arrows at
that time. He helped Orlanth to explore the world. Afterwards he
led people out into the wilderness, and to help them live comfortably taught them what we now called hunting. He was one of the
raiders in the famous Plundering of Aron, but when Hedkoranth
received more praise for his deeds, Siwend began going on fewer
raids. His wife is Indeg, who made the thorn basket that always
has another handful of dried berries in it.
Siwend has no worshippers now; he has been replaced by the
worship of a foreign deity Odayla. In many tales of the Plundering
of Aron, it is Odayla who competes with Hedkoranth not Siwend.

X Korolful the Keen
This corpse is of one of the forgotten Star Captains who followed
Orlanth into the Heavens. Like all Star Captains, his stories
emphasize that men make their own inheritance; he values pride,
independence, and initiative. He is the Shooting Star who speeds
across the sky to attack his enemies with burning flame. Korolful
is a master of bow and spear, the weapons of the sky.
Korolful has no worshippers now; they all died in the Great
Darkness.

e Baroshi, the Avenger
Baroshi’s father Varalz was a Vingkotling king who often helped
Orlanth fight against Chaos. His wife, Baroshi’s mother was
Enori. They lived at Rich Home. After the Spike was destroyed,
and the Devil led his Chaos Host to destroy the survivors huddled
in Dragon Pass, they first besieged Rich Home. Angered by their
presence, Maran Gor collapsed the Earth to trap the Chaos Army.

1621-1622

129

King Varalz went to meet the Chaos army, and defend his
queen who was in labor with his child. Termain Osboropo, a son
of the Devil ambushed and killed him. The queen gave birth,
and then went to fight Termain. When she did not return, their
infant child, Baroshi, leapt from his nurse’s grip and strode off to
seek vengeance. Aided by Maran Gor he killed Termain.
King Varalz and Queen Enori were annihilated by Chaos, and
cannot be worshipped. Their son Baroshi has no worshippers.
One of his first requests of his worshippers will be to find his
parent’s temple beneath the Caves of Chaos in Snakepipe Hollow
and recover the sacred treasures of his cult there.

. Saren, Elmal’s Charioteer
Saren is the driver of Elmal’s iron-rimmed chariot; he holds the
reins while Elmal hurls sun spears at the enemy shield wall. He
stands ready whilst his lord fights on foot — to return should his
lord need to withdraw on his chariot.
When Elmal crosses the sky each day, he rides in Saren’s
gilded chariot. Saren keeps a steady path, whatever the obstacles.
Two white horses pull the chariot: Shine and Aflame. Elmal’s
chariot can cross the vast distances of the Heaven in a single day.
Saren himself is faster than the blink of an eye.
Saren has no worshippers now, the Orlanthi do not use
chariots routinely and Mastakos, Orlanth’s charioteer fulfills any
ceremonial needs.

l Oonil the Skillful
Oonil the Skillful accompanied Orlanth when he left the
Spike with his Discovery Band. He had learnt to master the
sounds of his breath, and so could easily speak, trade, and
communicate with people Orlanth met and smooth out any
trouble Orlanth caused.
Oonil was fascinated by the crafts of the people the Discovery
Band met — he was always keen to learn new things. Often
he put together ideas from disparate people in new ways better
than the original. He learnt what was common in one place, was
valuable in another, and he provided for the band by setting up
exchanges between the haves and the have-nots. Oonil has no
worshippers now; the foreign god Issaries and the many artisan
gods such as Gustbran the Smith and Orstan the Carpenter
replaced him.
The Red Cow clan’s favored Old God is Harana Ilor, the
goddess of Harmony, and the PCs should remember this.

A Tanian, the Fiery Waters
Tanian is the son of Lorion, the Celestial Serpent, and Boveluru,

Goddess of the Celestial Waters. He fought alongside Heler in
many battles and joined the Storm Tribe when Heler took Orlanth
as his king.
Tanian is the impossible water that burns, and his most
famous manifestations are the firebergs and the rain of fire. The
God Learners summoned him at the Battle of Tanian’s Victory;
with his powers, they defeated the Waertagi and gained mastery
of the oceans. The EWF knew of Tanian too, and revealed the
Inner Dragon enabling him to be both fire and water.
No one has used Tanian’s power since the end of the Second
Age — he was ‘forgotten’ along with so many other God
Learners secrets.

THE GOLDEN TEAR
The PCs have obtained the Corpse Stars, either through the
Cauldron of Pieces or by joining the Namers in the Green Age.
Either way they must now take their coals into the Sky World,
and place them on the Resurrection Throne.
A PC who initiated into the cult of the Young God must lead
this ceremony. If no such PC survives, the quest fails because the
PCs have no way to reach the Sky World. (Kind Game Masters
may wish to figure some way out for the PCs, but that is outside
the scope of this book.) If an initiate of the Young God is still
here, they know the Golden Tear rite. This rite allows them to
tear a rent in the fabric between the worlds and travel to the
Young God’s home at the edge of the Sky River.
The PC must collect tears into a golden bowl by approaching
each PC and asking them for their tears. Ask the PC what sad
memory they think of when they cry. Once they have their
tears, and their own, the celebrant must call upon the aid of the
Cinsina, back home. When they do this a gentle rain of tears falls
upon the PCs. The rain splashes over them and into the bowl.
In the Middle World, everyone in the Red Cow feels a
moment of overwhelming sadness and cry for the events of the
Great Winter. The PCs perceive images of sadness from their
kin — relatives dying from exposure, hunger, or cut down by
monsters or Imperial troops.
The PCs find themselves drawn to the bowl, which seems to
grow larger and larger, until they realize it has become a golden
city surrounding a bay and they are falling towards it.

THE SKY WORLD
The path of the sun, Elmal’s path in his chariot, is below in the
Sky World. When someone looks up, they just see a diffuse
brightness — Dayzatar, the Sky of the Sky.

ORLANTH AND MAGIC IN THE SKY WORLD
Once the PCs leave the Underworld and cross into the Sky
World, tell them the coals glow very brightly and hot, and they
find that they can do magic again — feeling a connection to
the Corpse Stars they carry with them. Orlanth worshippers
will find they can do magic again as well, but their magic is
limited by the Corpse Stars they chose. When a worshipper

130

describes magic he needs to identify how a corpse star would
provide that magic. For example, if the PCs bring back Tanian,
they may be able to use the Air Rune to turn rain to fire, but
won’t be able to use the Air Rune to fly.
Ernalda worshippers do not have access to magic — their
goddess still sleeps.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

PRINCESS STARRY EYES

THE YOUNG GOD

In the Storm Age, when the waters invaded the Heavens,
Princess Starry Eyes lived on a small island. She settled
an argument between two great river serpents. She
directed one, Sramak, the Outer Ocean, to hold up the
Sky Dome, and the other, Lorion, into the Sky World. At
the beginning of each year the three of them meet on the
island to sacrifice together. Her city became such a place
of peace and tranquility that many other gods came here
to take their ease.

The Young God is a shadow or outline of a colossal person,
whose feet are in the Great Port and whose head is in the
arch of the sky. His faint but fair features are surrounded
by a halo of hair of dimly golden curls. People see the
Young God as a momentary glimpse at best, or do not
see it at all. Give the players the option to decide for
themselves if their PC sees the Young God.

THE TATTERED AND TORN
The inhabitants of the Sky World are the Luxites, the Sky
People. They are angelic beings, tall, handsome, and proud. Mostly
they are radiant, clad in white, and serene in interaction. King
Arraz rules over the Luxites. They have different classifications
and groups, known to astrologers but less important here.

THE SKY RIVER
THE GREAT PORT
When is this?

The PCs enter the Sky World on Godsday, Truth Week, Fire Season.
Welcome to the City

The Great Port is a large city of bright yellowish stone, mostly
of flat-roofed one-story buildings. It is horseshoe shaped, built
on a range of hills forming a natural amphitheater surrounding
the great harbor. A number of large squares provide markets and
places for the city folk to gather. All the roads in the city lead
down to the harbor’s edge like the spokes of a great wheel.
The harbor is surrounded by a sea wall, with two tall towers
of red stone on either side of the mouth. Buildings surround the
harbor edge: warehouses, chandlers, markets, and inns. In the
harbor, a myriad of boats bob in the swell from the Sky River.
The Great Port lies on the edge of the Sky Dome, where
the sky meets the waters of Sramak’s River on which Glorantha
floats. It thus lies on the confluence between the Oceans and the
Sky World — sail far westward on Glorantha’s oceans, beyond
the known edges of the world, and into the Great Port, then
beyond into the Sky World along the Sky River.
The Sky River is so vast anyone looking out from the harbor
would easily believe that they looked out upon an ocean.
The residents are Luxites who ply their trade upon the Sky
River, visiting islands all along its length. The port is also home to
heroic adventurers from the Middle World who sailed into the Sky.
If the PCs ask about passage upriver most of the Luxites seem
unresponsive: “King Arraz’s rules are strict,” they say, “no passage
for outsiders upriver.” However, they point the PCs toward a
harbor side inn called the Tattered and Torn. They tell the PCs
the inn is popular with strangers to the Great Port — most of
its clientele are not Luxites but travelers from the Inner World.
“Perhaps you will find a captain willing to take you upriver
there,” they say.

The Tattered and Torn is a harbor-side inn favored by mariners
from the Middle World who cross to the Sky River. Its clientele
are men and women of renown in their own communities —
humble sailors do not sail amidst the stars.
The inn is run by Lo-Yin. She is popular with all the regular
patrons, always greeting them with a ready smile and their
favored food, drink, or other relaxation. She has well-appointed
rooms where the officers of the vessels that dock here often sleep.
There is a bathhouse attached where visitors can wash away
the dirt of the road, have their clothes laundered, and receive
massages. The bathhouse is also a brothel, but Lo-Yin is discreet
about this, for the Princess would not be happy to find such
an establishment in her city. Most of the staff washed up here,
after being lost at sea where the Middle World and Otherworld
barrier was thin; hence, the name of the establishment. A few are
slaves, purchased from captains like Montalk.
The inn is expensive, a room and meal costs a golden wheel.
If asked Lo-Yin explains all other currencies are useless in the Sky
World. She will trade for luxuries she cannot obtain from the
Luxites at a favorable rate. This is how Lo-Yin is able to keep the
Tattered and Torn provisioned.
Landlady: Lo-Yin 7lW

Lo-Yin washed up in the Great Port after her Turtle-Barge
became lost in Kahar’s Sea of Fog. ‘Demons’ attacked the ship,
destroying it, and Lo-Yin survived by clinging to a piece of
wreckage. Slipping in and out of consciousness she wound up
in the Great Port. She was taken under the wing of Madam
Ernalor, the woman who formerly owned the Tattered and Torn
and claimed to have done so since the Second Age. When she
passed away, Lo-Yin took over the establishment; she regards the
continuance of the Tattered and Torn and the welfare of her staff
as her priority — she will do nothing to jeopardize that; beyond
that she is accommodating to her customers.
Landlady: Lo-Yin 7lW
Culture: Kralori
Age: 33
Keywords: Sailor
Magic: Initiate of Thrunhin Da, the Blue Dragon
of the Deep (7)
Look: Dark hair artfully piled on her head, plump,
silk kimono, smoking from an opium pipe

1621-1622

131

If the PCs ask for help in locating a captain to take them
upriver, she tells them: “It is a bad time to travel, King Arraz has
patrols up and down the river looking for pirates and smugglers.
You would be better off to wait until they pass. More captains
will take you then, few would try it now.”
If the PCs ask how long that will be, Lo-Yin shrugs her
shoulders: “Who can say? If you are desperate, there is only
one who will take you for now, the very buccaneer King Arraz
seeks: Captain Montalk of the Darkening-of-the-Skies.” Lo-Yin
gestures towards a booth at the back of the inn.

WORKING PASSAGE
Captain Montalk, a garishly dressed dark troll, sits with two
of his officers: a tall blond-haired man with a large axe, Osirin,
and a dusky skinned, heavily tattooed woman, Abenna. Trollkin
scurry around him and a blue-skinned woman with a heavy
bronze collar around her neck kneels at his feet.
Captain Montalk refuses to ‘talk business’ until everyone has
eaten or drunk. The food is raw meat and fish served with rice,
the drink, a strong troll beer, or rice wine. Once everyone has
had their fill, Captain Montalk will listen to the PCs’ request.
“Going upriver is dangerous at this time. There are King
Arraz’s patrols, and Shargash and Artia pass along the river,”
Montalk tells them. “What can you pay, for such a dangerous
journey? Slaves are always good; will some of you take your
places on the Darkening-of-the-Skies’ benches?”
If the PCs do not agree to a third of their compliment
becoming galley slaves, negotiating passage on the Darkeningof-the-Skies is a contest. For Montalk the prize is: more slaves
for his benches. On a Defeat some of the PCs will have to

take their turn on the benches, in order for Montalk to agree
passage.
Once the PCs have made their bargaining, Montalk will
seal the bargain with more beer, before calling for his crew to
take ship.

THE DARKENING-OF-THE-SKIES
The Darkening-of-the-Skies is one of the famous Black Galleys
of the trolls. It is 138’ long, 17’ wide (24’ with the rowing
frame), with a 6’ draught and displaces some 180 tons. It has
24 rowing benches to a side, each with three oarsmen. There
are two steering oars aft. Three masts provide for the ship to use
wind instead of oars.
Accommodation is either on the rowing benches or a
deckhouse at the stern and bow. During the day, the trolls rig
the sails as a tarpaulin to keep off the worst of the sun, preferring
to sail at night.
The wooden vessel is painted black, in the way of the trolls.
The Darkening-of-the-Skies has a crew of 5 officers, 20
sailors, and up to 144 rowers. The rowing benches are the
preserve of the damned: slaves and undead corpses. The slaves
come from across Glorantha, but Captain Montalk regularly
purchases them in Kareeshtu in Pamaltela. As a result, many of
those at the benches are black-skinned Agimori or blue-skinned
Veldang from the southern continent. The PCs may never have
seen such people before. The undead come from the same
stock: when slaves die from toiling at the oars, Montalk brings
them back as undead, much to the horror of their former bench
mates. The undead corpses can toil without tiring, rowing day
and night, and against the current; without them, it is doubtful

The Darkening of the Skies sails the Sky River

132

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

MY PCS DON’T WANT TO SAIL WITH MONTALK
The journey with Montalk is the Pur ‘station’ of the How
Orlanth Conquered the Stars quest. Like Orlanth, they must
dally with an enemy who has something they want. PCs
who refuse this station will eventually drop out of the quest
in the Great Port to return to the Middle World.
The PCs may be expecting something more ‘literal’ — the
seduction of a beautiful woman perhaps — but the Other
Side often works by substitution and allusion — one reason
why heroquesting can be so difficult.

The PCs might simply decide to steal a sail and ship out
of port. They will have to kidnap crew to help them sail the
vessel unless they have sailors amongst them. Hostage
sailors will try to jump ship as soon as possible, and other
ships will try to intercept them as they leave port. If the
PCs succeed with the plan, the Game Master will need to
modify the events below to reflect that.
One of the PCs should notice that when they take ship
with Captain Montalk the coals that contain the sparks of
the Corpse Stars begin to burn a little more brightly.

that the Darkening-of-the-Skies could cross Boveluru’s Current
into the Sky; but they do deteriorate quickly because they do
not heal the wear and tear of laboring at the oars — so Montalk
always needs replacements.
Some of the PCs may struggle with Captain Montalk and
his crew. Humakti despise undead and the cult of Zorak Zoran;
Orlanthi despise slavery. Yet, there is little choice — for who else
is there to take them up the Celestial River? Of course, those
PCs may go along with the captain, hoping for an opportunity
to mutiny…

Captain: Montalk Wave-Breaker osW

Captain: Montalk Wave-Breaker osW

Captain Montalk is a dark troll. He wears a loose-fitting turban
to keep the sun from his head and ears, and a pair of obsidian
sunglasses when in the bright light outside. His clothing is
garish: a collection of badly clashing colors and styles but made
of rich silks, cottons, and furs. He wears giant pantaloons, and
garish gold sandals. If anyone mentions his taste in clothing,
Captain Montalk looks puzzled and tells them his clothes “seem
good to me.”
Captain Montalk claims to have learnt the secrets of
sailing from Dastalak Boat-Eater himself, who in turn sailed
with Dormal the Opener. After leaving his native Jrusteli
Islands, he circumnavigated the world, trading cargos, before
deciding to follow Dormal and sail west over the edge of the
known world. Now he makes his living sailing the boundaries
between the worlds. Ostensibly, he trades curiosities from the
Middle World for the forgotten magical trinkets and treasures
from along the Celestial River; in practice, he is a pirate of
the Celestial River.
Captain Montalk is a hard captain, who beats his great
drum to demand greater exertion from his crew at the oars.
He does not suffer challenges to his authority, and has killed at
least two men who mutinied. His huge war maul is never far
from his side. Still, his skill as a sailor means his crew respects
him — who else could have led them to sail against Boveluru’s
Current and lived to tell the tale? Montalk sees no evil in his
decision to keep slaves, or raise undead to crew his ship: “The
strong have always ruled the weak and the flesh of the dead
means nothing to them.”
Montalk enjoys the simple pleasures: food and strong-drink;
curiosity and a love of adventure drive his travels, not greed.

Race: Dark Troll
Age: 27
Keywords: Sailor
Magic: Initiate of Zorak Zoran (o)
Look: Big pantaloons, garish clothing, turban

Value Trollkin: Bobber olX

A trollkin of above average intelligence, ‘Bobber’ is Montalk’s
personal valet: he fetches, cleans, mends, and generally arranges
everything his master needs. Bobber does not do this work alone:
up to four other trollkin help him; the numbers of his assistants
rise and fall as they die in accidents, from Montalk’s wrath, or
Montalk simply decides to eat them.
Bobber dislikes disorder or breaking routine. When the PCs
are aboard the Darkening-of-the-Skies, he will constantly point
out their mistakes and failings. With his constant whining, he
hopes to persuade Montalk to reverse his decision and maroon
the PCs in the Sky World.
Bobber is dedicated to meeting Montalk’s needs, and it would
be foolish to try and persuade him to rebel — he would pretend
to go along with the plot, only to betray its instigators. His team of
servants is his eyes and ears, always listening for whispers of betrayal.
As well as his master’s day-to-day needs, Bobber has trained
his team to be Montalk’s bodyguards, drilling them to fight with
knives. They would not make a serious opponent, but their
vicious defense might give pause.
Value Trollkin: Bobber olX
Race: Trollkin
Age: 17
Keywords: Valet
Magic: None
Look: Breechclout

First Mate: Osirin Bloody-Axe gjW

Osirin is an Ygg’s Islander who once sailed with the famous
Harrek the Berserk. He has raided ports along the southern

1621-1622

133

coast of Genertela from the Mirrorsea to Ozur Bay and joined
with Montalk after his old ship met the Darkening-of-the-Skies
off the Seshnelan coast and lost the resulting fight. Osirin cut
a bloody swathe through Montalk’s pirates that day; Montalk
offered Osirin and the survivors of his crew a choice — join the
Darkening-of-the-Skies or be shot full of arrows. Osirin and the
survivors have fought for Montalk ever since.
A tall man, standing over 6’6” tall, Osirin believes in blood
and bronze, and what they buy: life, gold, strong drink, and the
company of women. He regards slavery as normal: the weak
should serve the strong, and divides the world accordingly. For
Osirin Umath’s maxim that, “Violence is always an option” is a
way of life. In battle, he and Montalk fight with their gods’ fury.
Osirin holds the PCs in contempt until he sees them prove
themselves as warriors. Until then, he bullies and mocks them,
daring them to duel him if they dislike his words. Insults mean
nothing to Osirin from those who have not bested him in battle.
Once someone has done that, he will treat them as a companion
worthy of respect.
In battle, Osirin wields an axe called Howl-Bringer. Used
to fighting on the pitching deck of a boat, he foregoes armor,
favoring only a leather and bronze helmet.
First Mate: Osirin Bloody-Axe gjW
Culture: Wolf Pirate (Ygg’s Isles)
Age: 26
Keywords: Sailor
Magic: Initiate of Ygg (g)
Look: Furs and leather, long yellow hair and beard, tall

Helmswoman: Abenna the True 7Xs

Abenna is from the Rightarm Islands in the Holy Country. She
is both the Darkening-of-the-Skies Helmswoman and the ship’s
Opener, capable of conducting the Dormal rites allowing a ship
to safely sail Glorantha’s oceans. Osirin Bloody-Axe protects her
from harm for this reason.
Like her kin on the Rightarm Isles, Abenna was born to sail,
splashing about in boats from her earliest years. Osirin BloodyAxe, who had lost his own Opener in a sea battle, needed to
kidnap one to escape and kidnapped Abenna. At first, she
resented the gruff pirate, but after realizing that her life on Three
Step Isle would be one of servitude and drudgery she petitioned
to join his crew. She had to kill another crew member to earn
her place aboard — which she regretfully, but skillfully did, with
net and trident.
Abenna slipped into the pirate’s life, making one compromise
after another until she ended up in Osirin’s bed. Underneath,
Abenna struggles with the life she has led. She has loved the
adventure, sailing along the Celestial River, but she despises the
treatment of the slaves on the benches, and the undead corpses
make her uncomfortable. She might be persuaded to join a
mutiny against Captain Montalk. Certainly, she has had friendly
exchanges with Sadiya-ma.

134

Helmswoman: Abenna the True 7Xs
Culture: Rightarm Islands (Holy Country)
Age: 22
Keywords: Sailor
Magic: Initiate of Pelaskos (7)
Look: Dusky-skinned, heavily tattooed, long dark hair

Overseer: Banti Montalk-Owned .lW

Banti Montalk-Owned is a towering figure, his muscles taut
as iron from years at the benches. He still wears the collar and
fetters of a galley slave, but he no longer toils at an oar. Instead,
Banti oversees the slaves, his cruel bullwhip lashing out to punish
any act of disobedience and stamp out mutiny.
Banti has a deep bellowing voice, with which he cajoles and
curses the slaves in equal measure. He despises weakness, and
discourages slaves from helping each other.
Banti is a eunuch; when Banti was sold to Captain Montalk
the seller presented the Captain with a ceramic jar containing
Banti’s genitals. The magic of this ritual ensured Banti cannot
rebel against Montalk.
Banti’s job is made easier by the threat that killing a slave is
no obstacle — for Montalk can simply bring the corpse back to
life as an undead to serve again, and provide a warning to others.
With his huge hands, and bulk, Banti has squeezed the life from
slaves, clamping his hands around their throat and pressing his
thumbs into their eyes.
Banti embraces slavery as the natural order. He rejoices in
Montalk’s ownership and finds the idea of rebelling against his
enslavement as taboo. He believes enforcing slavery is a sacred
duty — and he finds talk of freedom ‘unnatural.’ He particularly
despises the blue-skinned Veldang, describing them as lazy,
callous, and untrustworthy.
Such is Captain Montalk’s trust in Banti that when the
Darkening-of-the-Skies rams a ship, Banti fights alongside the
crew, swinging his yatagan (a recurved sword), and laughing
disconcertingly.
Overseer: Banti Montalk-Owned .lW
Culture: Kareeshtu
Age: 26
Keywords: Sailor
Magic: Initiate of Ompalam W
Look: Black-skinned, rippling muscles, shaven head,
tall, slave collar and bracelets

Oarswoman: Sadiya-ma Montalk-owned 7WK

Blue-skinned Sadiya-ma is a Veldang from Kareeshtu in
Pamaltela, where people live in bondage. Montalk purchased her
from her former master, who had intended to execute her for
trying to flee. She wears a collar and chain, serving at Montalk’s
whim. Most of the time, she rows at the benches, but sometimes
Montalk summons her to the deckhouse, to amuse him.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

The Veldang people grow fewer in number with each Age.
Although she has learnt to play the dutiful slave to Montalk,
Sadiya-ma desires freedom, and the chance to return her people
to greatness.
Sadiya-ma is strong, rowing at the benches has given her a lean
body and muscles. She has fought her way to lead amongst the
galley slaves, in brutal fights with improvised knives and clubs.
The Veldang on the benches look to Sadiya-ma for leadership,
and were she to mutiny, would join her; the other slaves might
follow her leadership, if pressed. She hopes to persuade Abenna
to join them, knowing they will need the helmswoman if they
are to return to the Middle World.
She hates Banti Montalk-Owned, even more than Montalk,
for his collusion in the oppression of the slaves on the benches.
Sadiya-ma remembers her people’s ancient association with
the Blue Moon; she whispered words with a priestess of the
Seven Mothers in Nochet. If she learns the PCs oppose the rise
of the Lunar Empire, she will consider them enemies. This will
not stop her conspiring with them to mutiny, but she will turn
on them once the ship is in her hands.
Oarswoman: Sadiya-ma Montalk-owned 7WK
Culture: Kareeshtu
Age: 25
Keywords: Sailor
Magic: None
Look: Blue-skinned, long white hair, muscled figure

WELCOME ABOARD
Captain Montalk and his crew ready the Darkening-of-the-Skies
with efficiency, finishing the stowing of supplies for their journey
upriver.
Banti strips those PCs who are assigned to the benches —
returning their possessions to the other PCs because they are not
“part of the sale.” A local smith fits bronze collars around their
necks, with a long chain attached, which is run through a ring
in the decking of the ship in front of the PCs oar bench. The
redsmith also fits manacles on their wrists and ankles — enough
for them to move at a shuffle, or use an oar, but little else.
One of the PCs, preferably the physically weakest should be
locked into the benches beside Sadiya-ma. Another, perhaps one
who has a hatred of the undead, might be chained next to an
undead rower.
Captain Montalk begins to beat his drum as Abenna guides
the ship out of port, urging the rowers to begin drawing the ship
out of port. Banti cracks his whip, lashing the new recruits once
or twice to ‘welcome’ them aboard.
Osirin gives a running commentary to the passengers.
“After we leave the port, we’ll head for between the Willows
and the Tree Islands, then on the Dragon Islands. The Rice
Paddy, where we will leave you so that you can set out for the
City that lies beyond that. It will take us about two days to
make the journey. After we leave you at the Rice Paddy, we will
sail on to Valind’s Ice Palace.”

SKY RIVER BOATS
The boats of the Sky River have a crescent shaped hull,
broad at the beam, tapering to a point forward, which
lifts out of the water, and square at the stern. They are
flat-bottomed, without a keel. They are made from bundles
of reeds, fitted together with doweling rods, and lashed
together with rope. There is a decking of wooden planks
for the crew, under which the cargo is stored. Some boats
have a deckhouse for shelter. Oars propel the boats, using
rope instead of a gunwale. A number of the boats also
have a square sail, of bright cloth, rigged amidships. A
steering oar directs the boat in the current.

The Game Master may want to include a few scenes of
life aboard giving the PCs a chance to meet the crew. Some
suggestions are:
• One of the PCs chained in the benches notices that a nearby
Veldang slave, named Kindu, is sick. Every time he slacks
off, Banti beats him, and it soon becomes clear Kindu will
die either from fever or a beating. If a PC on the benches
tries to intervene, protest, or help Banti whips them.
• Have the PCs on the benches roll to see if they become
sick or injured from the demands of rowing. Apply any
Consequences of Defeat to further attempts to resist the
same contest. On the second failure for any PC, have
Sadiya-ma successfully render them first aid — removing up
to two levels of adversity. Banti later has her tied to the mast
and flogged for her intervention
• The Captain invites the PCs to join him for dinner at his
table. Bobber and his crew serve dinner — with course after
course washed down with strong beer. The menu is trollfriendly including fried worms, crickets, rhino beetles, silkworm larvae, scorpions, and weaver ants along with starfish
and sea urchins. The PCs may be relieved to find the main
course is a stew, until afterwards they discover it is trollkin.
Captain Montalk becomes quite offended if the PCs don’t eat.
• Osirin bullies and mocks one of the PCs, perhaps teasing
them about former companions who now work the benches,
and the likelihood of their becoming undead rowers. If they
react, he offers to duel to first blood to decide who apologizes.
• One of the PCs spots Abenna talking to Sadiya-ma. A
moment later Banti walks over and a furious row develops.
Abenna skulks off, and Sadiya-ma feels Banti’s lash.

THE TREE
When is this?

The PCs pass the Tree on Freezeday, Disorder Week, Earth Season.
Ambush at the Willows

The Darkening-of-the-Skies sails northeast from the Great Port
across the Sky River. Abenna steers the ship to the north of a
group of heavily forested islands in the center of the stream:

1621-1622

135

“Those are the Erenbaya Islands,” she tells the PCs. “The large
one is the Tree, but you can see the Fork off to one side, the
Branch and Root. It is a dangerous place to dock: the elves say
that it is home to four exiles: the traitor, his kin, the patriarch,
and the builder. We will give them a wide birth.”
As the Darkening steers north of the Erenbaya Islands, the
PCs see the northern shore of the Sky River, covered with a
dense forest of willows growing along the banks and out into
the water. They bend, rustle, and move casting dark shadows
on the water.
A fiery red dot appears in the sky ahead of them. A loud
roaring sound accompanies the passage of the red dot, which
grows ever closer. Captain Montalk shouts: “Shargash!” The
Orlanthi know that this is another name for Orlanth’s enemy:
Jagrekriand. The crew musters to defend the ship.

136

As the fiery red dot draws closer, it is clearly a great chariot,
driven by a red-haired god. Flames follow in its wake, and the
sound of thunder peels across the sky.
Captain Montalk, Osirin, and Abenna confer; realizing that
there is little hope of avoiding a fight. The captain begins to beat
his drum and Banti lashes the slaves with his whip, urging them
to greater exertion.
As the chariot passes overhead, warriors jump from the chariot
and fall to the ship as meteors, crashing onto the deck sending
splinters of wood flying in all directions. The deck catches alight.
Have any PCs on the rowing decks contest against a Very High
resistance to avoid being burnt. A fire catches amidst the rowing
benches — but Banti refuses to let any of the rowers aid the fallen
or try to put out the fire, lashing them to keep them rowing at the
benches. The PCs watch in horror as some of the rowers, chained

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

to their benches, burn alive. The mainmast catches alight as do the
sails, forming a burning pillar in the heart of the ship.
The meteors shimmer and stand, taking humanoid form.
Shargash’s warriors are Hell Men, who will try to destroy the
ship and kill everyone aboard. The Hell Men are a Very High
resistance, though see below. There should be at least one Hell
Man for every three PCs. They spit fire at opponents out of
range, and grab those close enough, pulling them into their fiery
embrace to burn and catch alight.
On a mythology roll against a Very High resistance a PC may
be aware of useful facts about the Hell Men: normal weapons
cannot harm them, simply melting when they touch their
molten bodies but water will damage them.
If a PC is struggling in a contest with a Hell Man, Abenna
organizes a bucket-chain and throws seawater over the Hell Men
to cool and crack them; this acts as an assist to the PC with a
rating of 10W.
Treat this as a battle and instead of narrating the whole
engagement, just focus on the actions of the PCs. The Darkeningof-the-Skies will win this fight, and whilst a few NPCs amongst
the Montalk’s pirates die, the named NPCs just suffer a few nicks
and cuts.
Banti refuses to free the slaves, but Sadiya-ma will try to
inspire them to defend themselves, beating the Hell Men with
oars, or strangling them with chains. Osirin will show more
respect to any PCs who join and acquit themselves well; treat
any Benefits of Victory/Consequences of Defeat as a modifier to
interaction with Osirin.
Captain Montalk will extinguish the flames, summoning a
blob of darkness he directs about the deck, snuffing out any fires
it touches.
Beached

Abenna examines the damage to the Darkening-of-the-Skies.
She informs everyone the ship needs repairs: the mainmast needs
replacing and the damage to the hull repairing. The trees of the
willows are unsuitable, but the trees growing on the heavily
wooded Erenbaya Islands are suitable. Captain Montalk laughs:
“Then tonight, if we are lucky we will dine on elf pulp.”
Abenna beaches the Darkening-of-the-Skies on a sandy cove
on the largest of the Erenbaya Islands: Tree. Captain Montalk
leads the away party; he takes Abenna to help select a suitable
tree, and Banti to oversee a group of slaves, Sadiya-ma among
them, who will cut the wood. All of the PCs should be included
in the expedition. Osirin is left in charge of the ship.
Into the Woods

The island is covered in trees inland from the beach; the land
climbs steadily away from the beach toward the center of the
island as the expedition heads inland.
The forest is mostly evergreens such as fir and cedar, all
excellent materials for a mast. However, Abenna is looking for
one tall and straight enough. Although the forest is dense the
gloom is illumined by the trees themselves which all glow with
a faint white light.
A few of the slaves become spooked, sensing the expedition
is being watched. Banti whips them, shouting orders at them to

HELL MEN
The Hell Men of Alkoth are the souls of the dead, remade
by Shargash. These Shadzorings have molten humanoid bodies, the breath of Shargash — the fire of the
Underworld, covered in a thin skin of ash and cinder. As
they move, their rigid skin cracks and breaks, and flame
and heat spill out, before the crack’s edges melt and reseal.
Their mouths and eyes are open holes into their molten
core. They radiate intense heat and anything combustible
coming too close to them catches alight.
Hell Men
Significant Abilities: Ash and Cinders
Exceptional Abilities: Embrace of Flame, Spit Fire
Legendary Abilities: Immunity to Un-enchanted
Weapons
Weaknesses: Water
Consciousness: Sentient
Relevant Statistics: 200-300 lbs, 8-10 feet tall

ORLANTH AND JAGREKRIAND
This encounter is more obviously the fight between
Orlanth and Jagrekriand in How Orlanth Conquered the
Stars. In the night sky at this time, Shargash reaches the
Dragon Isles as he moves down the Celestial River. Without
knowing why, many of the Cinsina look to the Heavens
at this exact time, to see Shargash moving through the
constellation of the Star Dragon. After this encounter,
anyone opening the box is almost blinded by the bright
light from the coals, which glow with a blue-white flame.
The box is now uncomfortable to hold and the interior is
scorched and charred with heat.

DERGI FIGHTS ORLANTH
In How Orlanth Conquered the Stars the General of
Heaven sends Dergi against Orlanth to test him. The PCs
may be waiting for this encounter, but Shargash is the
only martial obstacle on the river. Missing stations are
not uncommon on heroquests.

keep marching. The PCs can make a contest against a moderate
resistance to note some ape-like creatures moving through the
high branches, following them. If the PCs suggest pursuing or
driving off these watchers, Montalk dissuades them: “They are
little threat and we will be done soon enough.”
Eventually Abenna selects a cedar tree and Banti hands a
couple of axes to slaves and tells them to begin chopping. When
they tire, he rotates more slaves into the line. The tree is soon

1621-1622

137

felled and crashes to the forest floor. There are cries of alarm in
the forest, and birds shoot up into the air; everyone becomes
nervous. Montalk tells everyone to remain alert.
Banti then hands out small hand axes and has the slaves strip
the branches and foliage from the tree. With that done, he has
them attach chains to the log, and begin dragging it back.
The expedition is about halfway to the ship when the ambush
happens. A tall figure, 8’ or 9’ in height, steps onto the trail
ahead of them; the figure has pale silvery skin, and green pine
needles for hair. He wears scale armor made from silver bark and
carries a bow in his hand. A copper axe is fixed in the ground
before him. He bellows: “I am Velas Traitor’s Kin, guardian of
this forest. You have stolen from my forest, and you must pay for
the life you have taken.”
There are a number of choices:
• Fight! Velas draws his bow and begins shooting arrows
at the expedition; a slave falls with an arrow through this
throat. At that moment, the trees explode with runners —
ape-like creatures — covered in pine needles instead of fur.
They burst from the canopy throwing sticks and stones.
Velas Traitor’s Kin is a Nearly Impossible resistance in a
fight. He begins any contest with his bow, but then switches
to his axe. Remember that Captain Montalk Banti, and
Abenna are here and simply describe them as engaged in
combat with Velas. Give Velas a Multiple Opponent Penalty
of -9 against the first PC reflecting his duel with them,
increasing by -3 for each PC in turn.
• Negotiate: The PCs might try to negotiate: what would
Velas take in compensation for the wrong done to him,
after all that is the Orlanthi way! Velas will negotiate,
but money or jewels hold little interest to him. Magic or
perhaps slaves to toil in his forest provide much better
alternatives. Velas may take a fancy to the coals of one of
the Corpse Stars the PCs carry and offer to trade the new
mast for one of them. Decide on the resistance from the
value of whatever the PCs offer.

WHITE ELVES
The White Elves were the first children of Flamal, and were
related to the trees growing on the slopes of the Spike
in the God Time, shining with their own inner light. As
Flamal’s children spread over the world, the lesser green
trees we know today evolved. With the destruction of the
Spike, most of the celestial trees were destroyed and,
along with the forests, the white elves. Only one pocket
now remains, the Erenbaya Islands of the Celestial River.
Only four White Elves found refuge there: the traitor, his
kin, the builder, and the patriarch.
If the PCs can overcome Velas, they can return to the
ship with the new mast, if not they must abandon it in
the woods.
Either way, Montalk, Abenna, Sadiya-ma, and Banti
should survive the encounter, but many slaves may die.

138

• Flee: The PCs can decide simply to run; the last thing they
see is Montalk, Banti, and Abenna fighting with Velas.
Runners boil from the forest in every direction, hurling
sticks and stones from the trees; the vegetation itself tries to
stop them with vines whipping around their legs and arms.
Treat escape as an Extended Contest — Defeat indicates
injury while trying to flee.
On returning to the ship, Captain Montalk and Abenna order
that the ship cast off, fearing further attack. Even if they have the
mast, there is no time to affix it. Instead the Darkening-of-theSkies heads for the Dragon Isles under the power of its oars.
If any slave PCs fled, Montalk orders Banti to whip them. He
makes an example of them, whipping them in front of the crew
and other slaves. “So we punish all those who betray us,” Captain
Montalk says. If any PCs flee who are not slaves, then Osirin
mocks them as cowards.

THE DRAGON ISLES
When is this?

The PCs pass the Dragon Isles on Waterday, Disorder Week, Earth
Season.
The Isles

The Dragon Islands are obviously part of a huge dragon carcass
— massive chunks of flesh and bone. The proportions are
terrifying; one of the claw islands is as big as Isle Dangerous.
There is a clear torso, chopped from the head and gut, its wings
still bloody; it is the size of Darsh Peak in the Quivin Mountains.
The islands are coated in gore, and stink with the rot of eternity.
Harsh Discipline!

As the Darkening-of-the-Skies rows downriver Banti drives the
rowers on the benches hard; there are gaps now on the benches
from the encounter with Shargash the Sun-Chaser and Velas.
Sadiya-ma is absent and unable to champion the slaves’
cause; Captain Montalk has summoned her to his quarters for
entertainment. There he clothes her in silks and bells and has
her dance at the end of her chain for the crew and his guests;
everyone can see the hate in her eyes.
In her absence, when a slave collapses from exhaustion —
perhaps on the bench of one of the PCs — Banti flies into a rage.
Taking his yatagan, he spills the exhausted slave’s entrails onto
the decking. The slave dies in agony, still fettered on the bench.

ORLANTH AND ARTIA
The encounter at the Tree substitutes for Orlanth’s encounter
with Artia the Bat in How Orlanth Conquered the Stars.
Again, once the PCs escape from the Island, the coals
grow hotter, and shine more brightly. The coals are too
hot to touch now, and the box becomes uncomfortable
to carry unless heavily wrapped in cloth. Opening the lid
produces a blinding light.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

That night, after Sadiya-ma has been returned to the benches
Captain Montalk appears. He sews up the slave’s entrails and
mouth with gut and a bone needle. Then he calls upon his god
Zorak Zoran. Darkness shrouds him and the slave like a cloak;
when it clears, the slave sits upright at the benches, ready to serve
his captain again, as an undead.
The PCs hear Sadiya-ma pass word along the benches:
“When we beach to repair the ship — mutiny!” The PCs among
the slaves may keep the information to themselves, or pass it on
to the crew. If the PCs pass the information on, then Captain
Montalk maroons Sadiya-ma for plotting mutiny, and frees the
PCs. The PCs avoid the later mutiny scene, but Game Masters
should have Sadiya-ma escape exile and return to have her
revenge later.

MUTINY
The Darkening-of-the-Skies was badly damaged by its encounters
with the defenders of Heaven, and Abenna tells Montalk he
must put in at one of the Spine Isles. Montalk is reluctant, like
many of the crew, finding the Dragon Isles unsettling, but with
much of his ship damaged by fire, he has little choice.
The Spine Isles are bleak points of rock rising out of the
water, but Abenna finds a sandy beach where three or four of
the spine plates have formed one island and beaches the ship.
The crew disembarks and camps in tents along the beach. Banti
organizes the slaves into work parties to repair the ship and fit
the new mast. Banti should pick from amongst the enslaved PCs
to form the work party assigned to preparing the mast. They
are chained in a pair, and given hand axes, then told to strip the
timber back, and carve it into a mast. Abenna supervises the
work, whilst Banti wields his whip if any balk at the task.
Meanwhile Captain Montalk and the crew set up awnings
over the main deck for shade, and prepare a feast.
Sadiya-ma approaches the slave PCs on the work gang,
bringing them water in a bucket to drink. While she holds out
a ladle full of water for them to drink she whispers: “You have
weapons. Kill Banti now! I will try to persuade Abenna to join
us, if not, I will kill her myself.” She then moves amongst other
members of the work gang, offering the same advice.
The PCs have but a moment to warn Banti and Abenna if
they chose to do so, otherwise the slaves attack. If the PCs alert
Banti, he quickly raises the alarm, bringing Captain Montalk
and the crew from the ship to face the mutineers. The PCs may
have to fight a round or two with vengeful slaves at Banti’s side,
before help arrives.
If the PC slaves join the mutiny, have them face Banti; penalize
them with a -6 Situational Modifier for being chained together
and having only tools for weapons, but give Banti a -3 modifier
against the second of the PCs as a Multiple Opponent Penalty.
Sadiya-ma persuades Abenna to join the mutineers. She draws
her knives and joins Sadiya-ma in the fight for the Darkeningof-the-Skies.
Noise of the battle reaches Captain Montalk and the crew on
deck. Montalk cries out: “Those ungrateful dogs, we’ll cut them
all down. They will row better as undead corpses anyway.” The
crew grabs their weapons, just as the first of the slaves clambers
aboard the ship.

The mutiny descends into a melee on the beach or aboard the
ship. Captain Montalk will issue orders to take Abenna alive: he
needs the Opener when he returns to the Middle World.
Depending on which side the PCs choose, decide which
opponents they face — some should certainly fight with the
leaders on either side, others may just face nameless, faceless
crewmen or slaves. If the PCs join the mutiny, try to match the
PCs up with a member of the crew that they may have had a
confrontation with.
Determine the results of the overall contest from the PCs’
results — if the PCs win, their side wins, if the PCs lose, their
side loses.
If PCs are on the losing side the winners will maroon any
survivors here on the Dragon Isles and sail away. If the PCs are
on the winning side, their voyage can continue.
If the winners maroon the PCs, it is up to the Game Master
to adjudicate attempts to escape from the Dragon Isles. The
islands are bleak, and have no trees from which to make a boat.
Likely strategies involve lighting signal fires and begging passage
from a passing Luxite ship, or overpowering its crew.
Either way it is likely they will be here some time and will
not make the dates outlined below. They might return to find
that spring has come to Dragon Pass again. Many people may
see the Three New Stars as less important to the liberation from
the Great Winter, than if they had returned at the same time as
High King Broyan’s triumph.

THE RICE PADDIES
The Darkening-of-the-Skies drops its passengers off on the
north bank of the river. The PCs can see the endless rice paddies
stretching out before them. The paddies are flooded, and the green
shoots of rice plants can be seen growing in them. Scattered villages
abound, where Luxite peasants and their water buffalo tend the
fields. In the distance, to the north, the PCs can see an immense
city, dominated by tall ziggurats rising up at its center (see below).
The peasants here are nervous and avoid strangers. If the PCs
do try to interact with the people, a village headman typically
speaks to them. He tells them go to the city, where outsiders are
welcome. “I am sorry for our lack of hospitality, however the
people are afraid they will become polluted by contact with you.”

THE CITY
When is this?

The PCs enter the City on Clayday, Disorder Week, Earth Season. As
the PCs enter the City, unbeknownst to them High King Broyan
confronts General Tashkeveth at the Battle of the Auroch Hills. If
the PCs succeed, it may be that their actions played some part in
liberating Orlanth for the New Breathers there. In the night sky,
Orlanth’s Ring would normally be entering the City.
The Celestial City

The Resurrection Thrones lie in the City. The City is the central
region of the Sky, home to the Great Houses and officers of the
leaders of the Celestial Realm, who serve the Emperor Yelm.
Dominating the center of the City, three tall ziggurats loom
high above the other buildings and walls. These three stepped

1621-1622

139

CERTAMI
The certami are winged warriors who serve Arraz, King
of the Sky People. They appear as incredibly handsome
human men with long golden hair and glittering, multicolored wings. Armed with splendid glittering swords
and spears, magnificent enchanted golden hoplite armor
covers much of their bodies save for their wings and heads.
The certami are as old as the Sky, but were not apparent
until needed. They sprang up to defend Dayzatar when
Heaven was invaded, and have never failed in their duties.
As common soldiers for the angelic host, they are low in
the celestial hierarchy, but display a fanatical devotion
to the gods they serve and protect. They show an appropriately Dara Happan sense of morality and justice, and
know they are far superior to mortals.
Certami
Significant Abilities: Dara Happan Ethics, Fly,
Handsome, Proud, Tall, Tough
Exceptional Abilities: Embrace of Flame, Spit Fire
Consciousness: Sentient
Relevant Statistics: 175-200 lbs, 7-9’ tall

ziggurats are the stars of Arraz (the King of the Sky People),
Ourania (sister of Polaris), and Polaris (the General of the Sky).
Atop each ziggurat is a gilded throne, and the god is enthroned
there. The gods are too blindingly bright to look upon, and
anyone who tries for too long risks going blind. Walls surround
each of the ziggurats. From a distance the melodious hymns sung
by the Celestial Choir can be heard, beyond the understanding
of mortals but of marvelous beauty and harmony.
The City is walled and guarded and accessed only by gates. The
walls within the city are made from white stone fitted together
perfectly. The walls shine brightly in Dayzatar’s light, and the
PCs will find themselves squinting against the brightness.
To the south of the city lie huge rice paddies, along the flood
plains of Lorion the Sky River. People toil in these paddies
growing food for the people of the Sky World.
Distinct areas of the City are constellations in the Sky:
• The Chorus: Home to the priesthood of the Celestial
Choir. These are vast temple complexes with towering pillars
and statues.
• The Officers: The homes of the officers of General Polaris’
armies. These are the wealthy households of the nobility
amongst the Luxites.
• The Steward: The administrators of the great households
and the Emperor’s Court. These are modest townhouses
where the bureaucrats, scribes, craft masters, and administrators of the great households live.
• The Cook: The servants of the great households. Many of the
people here live in tenements. These are the poorer Luxites.

140

THE KING AND QUEEN
ARRAZ
Arraz is the King of the Sky People and governs the great
Celestial City.

OURANIA
Ourania is the Queen of Heaven. From the fiery tears of
her left eye came a goddess, named Supla, who bears
up all prayers, which are sent to the Queen of Heaven,
requiring no sacrifice save the tears of your suffering.
From her right eye came Musa, the goddess who bears
the light of her wisdom directly to the minds of Inspired
women and men. Ourania is the Chief of the Celestial
Choir who sing the praises of Lord Dayzatar.

Aliens

The residents of the City ignore the PCs’ arrival at first — they are
beneath notice as the citizens go about their day-to-day business.
That swiftly changes if the PCs cause any disruption to the
smooth running of the City — the citizens will recoil from them
in increasing alarm. If the PCs do not leave quickly, first a crowd,
and then a mob of citizens coalesces to confront them.
“You are not from here are you? Which district do you
come from? Is King Arraz aware you are here? Go away, you are
polluting this place,” shouts the mob.
As the commotion intensifies, the certami arrive, determined
to keep the peace and restore the orderly functioning of King
Arraz’s city. They listen to the mob, and, concerned the PCs
are aliens in the City and contaminating it with their profane
presence, drive them out.
If the PCs try to avoid disrupting the flow of the City they
might get quite close to Pole Star’s Fort before people begin to
notice them. This plays out pretty much the same way, as one or
two people gather at first to question them, followed by more and
more people until their way is blocked and the certami come.
This scene should turn into the PCs having to push their way
through the teeming masses to reach Pole Star’s Fort.
The Gate

Pole Star’s grand ziggurat lies at the center of the City behind its
own high walls. Only one entrance permits entry: the Pole Star
Gate. Polaris has entrusted Silonia, Mistress of the Dance, with
guardianship of the gate. She is under strict instructions not to
allow anyone to enter Polaris’ Court, and would forbid entry to
the PCs unless the one representing Orlanth agrees to join Pole
Star’s dance.
Pole Star is the General of Heaven, which move to his strict
choreography. To agree to join his dance is to agree to the fixed
shape of the Heavens; this would be a mistake for the PCs as
agreement means that the PC taking the role of Orlanth cannot
petition Polaris to allow the Corpse Stars to join the Heavenly
dance. A kind Game Master may allow players who forget this
advice from Minaryth to roll against their divine rune affinity
with a resistance of High, to remember this.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

If the PC refuses Silonia, he must, as Orlanth, dance a
new dance. Ask the PC how their dance reflects their desire to
include the Corpse Stars in the sky. It might be a war dance —
to indicate the Orlanthi need to march to war against the Red
Moon, but it might equally be a dance of the fertile rain to bring
new life into the Sky World. If a player provides a particularly
poetic description, reward them with a situational bonus of +6.
If the PCs fail to persuade Silonia to allow them access, their only
hope lies with breaking into Polaris’ citadel. High walls surround
Polaris’ citadel, and his Star Captains patrol the battlements. The
Star Captains are Polaris’ household troops, drawn from the best
fighters and greatest adventurers in the Sky World — they killed so
many of Engizi’s followers when he invaded the Sky it turned blue
with their spilt blood, and they descended like flaming meteors to
protect the last people in the Great Darkness. They wear bronze
armor composed of a chest plate, abdominal bands, and shoulder
protection. They carry bright, bronze-coated round shields, and
carry heavy spears for throwing and fighting. They are a Very High
resistance, if the PC can make it over the wall, which is a Nearly
Impossible resistance.
Failure here means the PCs cannot complete the heroquest
and must return to the Middle World.
Orlanth and Silonia

The Mistress of the Dance will try to prevent the PCs from
reaching the inner city, just as she tried to prevent the intrusion
of Orlanth. She knows the PCs seek to change the order of
the Heavens and tries to trick them into consenting to the
existing order — only by proposing a new one, can the PCs,
like Orlanth, proceed.
The Gap

When the Spike exploded (the Luxites call it the World Pillar) it
left a great hole in the Sky. Polaris built a wall around it.
The Ziggurat

If the PCs enter Pole Star’s Fort, he descends from the top of the
ziggurat and introduces himself as Rigsdal. He shows the PCs
to three gilded thrones, which lie on one of the lower levels of
the five-tiered ziggurat below his own throne and guard post. A
crowd has gathered at the foot of the ziggurat, teeming masses of
the Sky World come to witness and perhaps oppose this event.
“These are the Resurrection Thrones, and if it is your desire
to see these stars take their place in the great dance of the sky,
place their tokens upon them.” If the PCs place the tokens on
the thrones, ghostly images of the gods hover in the thrones.
Rigsdal steps forward and asks: “If any among you object to
these gods being returned to their place in the Sky, speak now, or
forever hold your peace.”
A number of figures step forward from the crowd, hefting
weapons. “Very well then,” says Rigsdal turning to the PCs. “By
Trial of Combat you must prove the right of these stars to ascend
into the Heavens once again, and defeat those who would keep
them out.”
The PCs’ opponents, the Keepers, depend upon the Corpse
Stars they chose — these opponents are those who have the most
to lose from their return. The Corpse Stars enemies fight the PCs

together in a general melee. There will be at least one opponent
for each corpse star, but double up on opponents if you have
more than three PCs.
All of the Keepers are at a Very High resistance.

g Varnaval the Shepherd King: The Dara Happans seek to oppose

Varnaval, because the Ram People were an important enemy in
the Gods War who threatened Dara Happa. The Ram People
sacked the Dara Happan city of Elempur but were defeated
by the Emperor Urvairinus. These Dara Happans wear full
hoplite armor, and carry large round shields and long spears.
If there is more than one of them, they fight together.
, Siwend the Hunter: The Narangrosings will oppose another
hunter, especially one who took part in the Plundering of Aron
being added to the sky. These are Telmori heroquesters, drawn
into conflict with their enemy the Red Cow (see the notes in
the Nightwood scene on page 243).
X Korolful the Keen: His opponents are the Red Cow’s ancestral
enemy, the ogres. The PCs may not realize that these strong,
tall, handsome opponents, wearing scale mail and carrying
swords are anything other than some unknown tribe. However,
if one of the PCs suffers a significant Defeat, his opponent
will use a parting slash to try to cut and eat part of them. On
a Complete Defeat, an ogre may fall on his victim, tearing off
chunks of flesh with his teeth.
e Baroshi, the Avenger: Baroshi’s opponents are scorpion men (see
Sartar Companion page 137), who resist his anti-Chaos powers
being added to Orlanth’s Ring. Even the other opponents may
be angered by their presence in the group opposing the entry of
the Corpse Stars into the Sky and will not team up with them.
. Saren, Elmal’s Charioteer: The trolls, or Uz, oppose the entry
of Saren into the Sky. These are big troll warriors with lead
armor and heavy leaden mauls. They wear darkness as a cloak
around them. They are bigger than the trolls the PCs will have
seen commonly.
l Oonil the Skillful: The Vadrudi, the sons of Vadrus such as
Gagarth, Ygg, and Valind, oppose Oonil. These are barbarian
warriors, clad in bronze chain mail and carrying barbed iron
spears. They oppose the rise of civilization amongst the Storm
Tribe for its weakening influence. They are cruel, and always
try to injure victims further with a parting blow.
A Tanian, the Fiery Waters: The Waertagi are a blue- and green
skinned humanoid race, known to dwell in huge ships made
from the bodies of mile-long sea dragons. These ships were
small cities, floating ports, each with its fleet of smaller ships
and related tribes of merfolk and undines. The God Learners,
who harnessed Tanian’s magic to send great firebergs against
them, drove the dragonships from the oceans in the Second
Age. For this reason they resist his re-admittance to the sky.
If the PCs manage to Defeat the Keepers, Rigsdal tells them:
“You have defeated the Keepers in Trial by Combat; none
now have a claim to prevent these stars returning to the Sky. I
recognize that Orlanth and his kin have the right to a place in
the Heavens, after all, is not Orlanth King of the Gods? Place
the coals bearing the spark of their life upon the Resurrection
Thrones, so that the Sky might be healed.”

1621-1622

141

ORLANTH AND POLE STAR
Orlanth persuaded the Heavens to dance to his tune and
rhythm. Like Orlanth, the PCs must persuade the Heavens
to take on the shape they desire. This is a major event, for
the PCs will make a change to Glorantha and so shape
the Fourth Age to come when the Third Age has ended
in the Hero Wars.
The Dara Happans know the unmoving star at the center
of the heavens as Pole Star; the Orlanthi know the star
as Rigsdal. Both are aspects of the same celestial body.
Here we use Rigsdal to refer to the star when it ‘dances
to Orlanth’s lilt and tune.’

If the PCs fail then Rigsdal says: “The consequences of
disturbing the pattern of the dance are always great, in this
case too great. I am sorry, but I will not return these gods to
the Sky World.”
Starfall

However the quest ended, the PCs return to the Middle World
from here, finding themselves falling back toward the Middle
World. At first, they see a square shape, floating in a sea of blue.
It grows larger and larger until they can make out the green and
brown of Genertela and Pamaltela; a little later, they see the
Jrusteli Islands too. They dive toward the northern continent,
the Rockwood Mountains becoming more distinct as they fall,
and then Dragon Pass. Finally, they see the Quivin Mountains
and Larnste’s Table, where they land.

Outsiders see meteors falling towards Larnste’s Table where
they land with a boom, knocking people nearby to the ground.
The PCs find themselves lying or kneeling in small impact
craters on the surface of Larnste’s Table. The ground around
them has fused into glass with the heat of their passage.
Farandar and Kullina have waited for their return.

AFTERMATH
When is This?

If the PCs succeeded, then when Windsday begins at dusk,
everyone looks up to the sky and sees three new stars in the sky,
where Orlanth’s Ring should be. Those PCs who are initiates of
Orlanth realize they have magic when they see the New Lights (as
everyone starts calling them) at the Pole of the Sky World. The
stars vanish that night though, as Orlanth’s Ring would when
it begins its journey through the Underworld. The appearance
of these new stars is noticed across the world, and many people
wonder what this could mean.
The contest results should be used to bolster the Red Cow’s
Magic Resource.
Word filters through about the Battle of the Auroch Hills
over the next few days. People may even meet the New Breathers
when they come north with the message of High King Broyan’s
victory. The New Breathers are surprised the PCs can do magic,
and were not with them on ‘Brastalos Day’ but listen to their
tales of the Sky World.
One week later, on Windsday of Harmony Week in Earth Season
the PCs all experience the same dream: they are conducting the
Three Star Rites for all their kin, and sacrificing to the new stars. If
they tell the priests, chieftain, or ring, they will ask them to repeat

A sixth of the clan dies during the Windstop and its aftermath.

142

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 5

THE THREE NEW STARS
WHAT HAPPENS IF WE GET LESS THAN
THREE STARS?

This is normal. In Glorantha great events are often the
result of many heroquesters journeying to the Other Side.

If the PCs resurrect less than three Corpse Stars, the effect
of their magic is lessened. If they bring back two stars
then Orlanthi magic has a -3 Situational Modifier when
used; if they bring back one star then Orlanthi magic has
a -6 penalty.

FREEING ORLANTH

This event is visible around the world.
During the events of Orlanth is Dead, those Orlanthi
outside the area of effect of the New Lunar Temple,
living in locations such as Ralios and Umathela keep
their magic. However, they are aware of the changes
in the Sky. Across Glorantha, Orlanth’s Ring no longer
traverses the Heavens.
From each of these lands heroquesters set off to the
sky to return Orlanth’s Ring to its rightful place. Heroes
from those lands, such as Garundyer in Ralios, each work
to return the stars to the Sky and have their own story of
how they obtained the Three New Stars.

The Three New Stars are just one solution to ‘freeing Orlanth.’
For another example, the New Breathers at the Battle of the
Auroch Hills exploit the Still Day of Brastalos.
None of these release Orlanth, but parts of him leak out
of his prison.
Orlanth holds the Movement Rune and is the inheritor
of Larnste the Unfettered One — escaping bonds is what
he does. Imagine a bag filled with air and then squeezed
tight; air leaks out of the weak points such as the seams.
The PCs of the Three New Stars and the New Breathers
are weakening those seams of Tatius’ prison, and the air
is leaking out.
At the Battle of Pennel, the bag is ripped open, and all
the remaining air bursts out.
Afterwards, Orlanth’s Ring returns to the Sky World. Now
the ring has ten orange stars and one green star. People
call the ring the Eleven Lights now.

their dreams. They check and confirm details and tell the PCs:
“We must gather the clan and you must perform these rites.”
The clan hastily gathers and sacrifices to the new stars. Ashart
tells the PCs one of them must become a priest and lead the
rites, because they have no magic from Orlanth. The other PCs
become god-talkers.
That night, Fireday, Harmony Week, Earth Season, the new
stars appear again and follow the path Orlanth’s Ring would

take. Across the world stargazers note that the Three New Stars
traveling where Orlanth’s Ring once went and wonder at the
struggle in the Heavens. Surely a portent of the Hero Wars.
The clan sacrifices a red cow, a white cow, and black cow.
The participants feel a connection, not to Orlanth, but to the
Three New Stars, and realize they can do magic through them.
Afterwards all the Orlanth initiates in the clan who participate
have magic again.

AROUND THE WORLD

1621-1622

143

• Chapter 6 •

1623

CONFLICTS
THE RISE OF THE CULBREA
The Culbrea tribe has rebelled. Their king, Ranulf Stand-Tall, has
raised his banner, and led his tribe to the Battle of the Auroch Hills.
The Culbrea refuse to pay taxes to the Empire, and kill the tax
collectors. They expel or murder the missionaries, and mercilessly
outlaw Lunar sympathizers. Kallyr Starbrow and her household
base themselves in Lorthing Vale at the king’s hall in Fox Hollow.
Venharl Stormbrow and Orstalor Spearlord are frequent visitors.
Jomes can do little. With so many troops lost at the Battle
of the Auroch Hills, protecting Tatius’ new Reaching Moon
Temple, or fighting in Esrolia, he needs what he has to hold the
cities, towns, and roads. Lorthing Vale becomes ‘bandit country’
and apart from brave or foolish vexillae, the Lunars no longer
enter it. Tatius does not care; once his temple is complete, the
rebellious tribe can be annihilated.
Ranulf is anxious that the Culbrea are once again the most
important tribe in the Jonstown Confederation. The Cinsina
oppose that; they have become the strongest since three Culbrea
clans joined them, and Queen Ivartha wants to hold onto their
allegiance. The Culbrea demand the lost clans are returned to
them from the Cinsina: Greenhaft, Blueberry, and Goodhaven,
but Queen Ivartha stands firm. Whilst she has no love for the
Empire, she also has no desire for her clans to be under the
Culbrea yoke instead.

KING OF THE CULBREA:
RANULF STAND-TALL gsW
A member of Hofstaring Treeleaper’s household, Ranulf betrayed
his king during Starbrow’s Rebellion. He fled the Lunar Army
besieging Larnste’s Table instead of standing at Hofstaring’s side.
The Empire, believing him a simple farmer and coward, elevated
him to the tribal kingship as a puppet ruler.
People called him Ranulf Turn-Tail after that. To many it
seemed he was just another Orlanthi leader who had taken the
safe option of collaborating with the Empire, and raising his
crops and cattle.
King Ranulf never forgot his failure at Larnste’s Table. He
took heart that Orlanth had taken responsibility for his errors
and corrected them. In 1622, when Lunar forces gathered, he
raised the Windstorm Banner, expelled the Empire’s soldiers
and missionaries from Lorthing Vale, and marched to help
High King Broyan.
People called him Ranulf Stand-Tall after that. His feats on
the battlefield that day earned him a reputation of merciless

144

thoroughness. Known for his farmyard sayings, Ranulf has
taken to saying: “For the field to thrive, evil weed must be torn
out by the roots.”
King of The Culbrea: Ranulf Stand-Tall gsW
Tribe: Culbrea
Faction: Free Sartar
Age: 45
Keywords: King
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth — Barntar and Rigsdal
sub-cults g
Look: Short-beard with a long mustache, long
graying hair braided down his back, fond of farmyard
analogies

THE RETURN OF FINDAR LONGSWORD
With the Rising of the Culbrea, Findar Longsword returns to
the Two-Pine clan. Findar is the clan’s most famous chieftain of
recent years, who regularly took tribute from the Red Cow and
Blueberry. Accompanying him is the Black Hill Band, thanes
who accompanied Findar into exile and form the core of the
revitalized Two-Pine warband.
Findar is keen to lead the Two-Pine to war and challenge
Kulbrast for leadership of the clan.

TWO-PINE REBEL: FINDAR LONGSWORD gtj
Findar Longsword is a renowned rebel. For years his Black Hill
Band has harried the Lunar supply lines between Alda-Chur and
Jonstown — he has gained plunder from those raids, but turned
it all over to the poor downtrodden farmers of occupied Sartar.
His exploits are notorious and he has even fought running battles
with the authorities on the streets of Jonstown. As a result, few
clanfolk would give him up; when he was finally caught in 1620
it was by betrayal from within his own camp. Even then he
escaped to fight again.
A Wind Lord of Orlanth, Findar epitomizes the womanizing,
daredevil, adventurous hero, just one step ahead of angry
husbands and the authorities. He is charismatic and generous,
and men flock to his hall to serve him, even if that ‘hall’ is a tent
in the hills, on the run from the Empire.
With the Rise of the Culbrea, Findar is determined to
return his clan to its rightful place as the Spear of the Culbrea.
To do that he needs to teach the Cinsina their place, and make
the ‘lost’ clans feel the error of seeking protection from Queen

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 6

From left to right: Ranulf Stand-Tall, Findar Longsword
Ivartha instead of King Ranulf. He intends to do that by taking
the Seven Tributes once again.
Two-Pine Rebel: Findar Longsword gtj
Tribe: Culbrea
Faction: Free Sartar
Age: 51
Keywords: Rebel
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth s
Look: Trimmed white hair and beard, handsome,
orange eyes

THE SILENT WIND RETURNS
With the Rising of the Culbrea, Orngerin challenges Jost BronzeSide for the leadership of the Greenhaft. His message is “overthrow
Jost Bronze-Side and return the clan to the Culbrea.” Queen
Ivartha considers him a thorn in her side — if the Greenhaft
secede, other former Culbrea clans might too, weakening the tribe.
We leave the outcome of this to the Game Master to decide,
and to involve the PCs in as she sees fit.

BLOODY SWORDS AND RED COW TRIBUTE
The Culbrea demand the Red Cow Tribute, but the Red Cow
clan refuses to pay, threatening war. When the Red Cow refuses
to pay tribute to the men of Lorthing Vale, Ranulf will unleash
the Two-Pine, ‘to take what the Red Cow owe.’
The Two-Pine clan needs to complete bloody rituals to fuel
their war magic. They begin their Bloody Sword Tribute raids as
part of the rituals sacrificing swords wrested from the corpses of
their former owners.

King Ranulf accepts this escalation saying: “Every garden
needs its weeds pulled once in a while.” The result is almost
certainly a bloody feud will begin between the Red Cow and
Two-Pine. With King Ranulf backing the Two-Pine and
demanding tribute from the ‘lost’ clans, Queen Ivartha becomes
involved too, which threatens to spread the conflict until the
Culbrea and Cinsina are engulfed in a life and death struggle.
Jomes is not able to intervene to prevent two tribes going
to war. With the Culbrea occupied fighting their northern
neighbors he has one less enemy to deal with.
Lunar military strength has been severely reduced following
the Battle of the Auroch Hills. Tatius the Bright has pulled many
of the surviving troops south to his Reaching Moon Temple site,
to form a protective cordon. The regiments stationed in Sartarite
cities and forts are at half-strength at best, and in some cases no
longer effective.
Within this campaign, halve the number of Mirinite
Swords and Doblain Dogeaters stationed in Red Cow Fort and
Dangerford. Following losses at the Battle of the Auroch Hills,
the Arrowstone Cavalry are not an effective fighting force in
Sartar in 1623 and 1624.
Jomes sends Sureela Far-Traveled to stir up trouble between
the two tribes, pretending to be both a Cinsina and Culbrea
killer at times as she stokes the feud. Ingkot Sharp-Eyes is Jomes’
eyes and ears within the Red Cow, stirring up lies of atrocities
committed by the Culbrea.
The Red Cow might be able to obtain aid from the Moon
Dogs through Jomes, to hunt and kill Culbrea leaders, but for
many this could be a step too far.
Kallyr Starbrow could negotiate a peace, but Queen Ivartha
will not countenance recognizing her authority by asking her.
The PCs, as the Three New Stars band, do have contact with her.
If Orlmarl the Charioteer accompanied the PCs on the Three

1623

145

New Stars heroquest, they may be able to use that contact to
open negotiations with the Two-Pine clan.
We do not provide specific episodes for use with the feud
with the Culbrea, but the Game Master should see the Cattle
Raid, Feud, War, and Peace Weaving episodes for ideas on how
to run the conflict. (As an example for more ambitious Game
Masters, in one play-test, the players chose to assist Orstalor
Ironplow and Malan Hardbargain in healing Death Hollow, to
bring peace with the Two-Pine clan.)
Of all the Rivals (see page XX), Kangharl Black-Brow stands
to gain the most from the conflict with the Two-Pine clan as it
plays to his agenda of a strong Red Cow not living in fear of its
neighbors. He will exploit that.

TINKER, SPY: INGKOT SHARP-EYES 7.i
Ingkot the Tinker and his beloved mule, Mara (short for Maran
Gor on account of her stubbornness) are a common sight in
the lands along the Creek. An itinerant merchant, a northerner
perhaps by his accent, Ingkot seems little harm to anyone. He
trades in old pots, pans, and household tools. He mends the
broken ones, knowing enough smith-craft to beat out dents,
sharpen edges, or melt and mold old into new.
A drunk, who likes strong cider and un-watered wine, he
is not particularly good at his job, but he will work for food
and somewhere to sleep. People welcome him despite his faults
because the children enjoy his stories.
Ingkot is a master of storytelling, knowing just how to make
children laugh or cower in fear, and adults ponder. He can take
on parts, changing his appearance with tricks of costume and
voice and a little conjuring.
Ingkot’s reputation has earned him a place at the halls of
thanes and chieftains, guild masters, and elders. This is very
useful to Ingkot, because he is a spy for Jomes. The gossip, tittletattle, scuttlebutt, and rumor he collects all feed his paymaster’s
picture of events.
Ingkot has plied his trade among the clans of the Creek so
long he does not remember his former identity, save that he
once attended the Lunar College of Magic, and still knows some
devastating spells to burn and maim enemies. His only friend is
Dushi the Patient, a Jonstown whore, whom he loves, but uses
for the information she pumps from her customers.
He communicates with Jomes by the Twin Ruby. This
paired magical crystal, the blood of some dead god, allows
communication, whatever the distance between the two holders.
Ingkot wears one half as a pendant beneath his rags; Jomes wears
the other half as a ring.
Tinker, Spy: Ingkot Sharp-Eyes 7.i
Faction: Lunar Empire
Age: 48
Keywords: Spy
Magic: Mage of the Lunar College of Magic 7
Look: Blue eyes, smells bad, unkempt gray hair
and beard

146

DOLUTHA EXILES
Following the Great Winter, Broddi welcomes a number of
Dolutha exiles into the Red Cow including Twisted Morganeth,
Korolfin Longeye, and Inganna Koscheisdottir. Over the year
more and more Dolutha exiles drift into the clan and this will
cause trouble in the future as they agitate for Red Cow aid in
expelling Ivar. Broddi resists calls to help them. He points out
that the Red Cow has enough trouble with a resurgent Culbrea.
Farandar Orendalsson, spurred by Orlmakt Nine-Winds and
Morgan Sword-Tongue, begins agitating with the Dolutha to try
and raise his profile as an alternative to Broddi.

BRANGBANE, KING OF THE GHOULS
The numbers of ghouls in the Woods of the Dead swelled during
the Great Winter and now they must range further afield in
search of fresh ‘livestock’ to support their growing numbers. See
Into the Woods of the Dead.

GO YOUR OWN WAY
At this point the Game Master may find their campaign begins
to diverge from events outlined in the year-by-year campaign
here. This is to be expected, especially as the PCs are empowered
by the Three New Stars. Do not fight these changes; embrace
them, for the players are making the game their own. In one
play-test, for example, the PCs persuaded the Cinsina Ring to
declare independence, just as the Culbrea had done, and expel
the Lunar missionaries and garrisons from Cinsina lands. The
consequences, the shakeup of Red Cow and Dolutha leadership
and Jomes’ impotence to respond with military force took the
story in a new direction.

THE RING
Unless a PC is obviously ready for the role, then Broddi replaces
Farandar Orendalsson as Barntar on the ring with Jarkorl
Snow-Whiskers in return for his support. Broddi cites Farandar
abandoning the clan to fight with Broyan at the Battle of the
Auroch Hills in his reasoning. If a PC could take this role,
remember Broddi will be looking for loyalty to his chieftaincy
and his isolationist agenda.
Farandar is outraged; prompted by Kullina the Fat he begins
gathering support to run against Broddi for the chieftaincy.
Kullina is determined to see a pro-rebel leader take the chieftaincy
of the Red Cow.
At this, Kangharl Black-Brow and Borngold ManyBrothers begin their own campaigns for election. Darna
Longcoat is Kangharl's main supporter, she calls in the wealth of
favors she has accrued over the years, perhaps including from the
PCs, to help Kangharl's campaign.

THE HOUSECARLS
Hard years of struggle have left the clan’s Housecarls brutalized,
particularly the struggle to survive the Death of Orlanth. There
is little joy in the Thunder Brothers hall, but plenty of grim-

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 6

faced determination. Ortossi Ketilsson leads the bodyguard since
Jaranil the Thunder’s death in the Great Winter.
Two new housecarls join following the events of the Great
Winter.
Orlmakt Nine-Winds was a rebel who has recently returned
to the clan of his birth. Broddi has to honor his aid to the people
in the Great Winter by making him a thane, though Ortossi
objected that Orlmakt was more interested in ‘becoming
chieftain of the Dolutha than defending the Red Cow.’
There is truth in Ortossi’s accusations for Orlmakt, who was
one of the New Breathers — those who fought at the Battle of
the Auroch Hills and regained Orlanthi magic early — fought
a guerilla war in and around Dangerford after the Battle of the
Auroch Hills and he hates the Sworn Knives. Ivar Quickstep
hates Orlmakt for his breaking of Ferfal’s Fire — an act he
believes was deliberate — and spurns Red Cow friendship while
Orlmakt “is given sanctuary in Red Cow Fort.”
Morgan Sword-Tongue fought with Orlmakt at the Battle
of the Auroch Hills and hero worships his friend. He supports
his friend’s hostility to the Dolutha chieftain and agitates for the
clan to take action against the Moon Winds of Dangerford.

HOUSECARL: MORGAN SWORD-TONGUE gst
Morgan Sword-Tongue proved his courage as a warrior fighting
at the Battle of the Auroch Hills when he saved Farandar
Orendalsson and was amongst the New Breathers who brought
word to the clans that Orlanth still lived.
He is a friend of Kangharl and often drinks with him. Having
returned from serving as a mercenary in Pavis, Morgan now joins
Kangharl in his calls for raids against the northerners instead of
peace. This angers Broddi who calls for Ortossi to silence the
‘troublesome’ housecarls.

Morgan is tall, dark, and handsome. He is popular with
the women; however, he has given his heart to his wife Halda
Mistress-Of-Tales and will dally with no one else.
Morgan’s mother is Griselda Gray-Tresses. Griselda often
scolds him for not listening to Broddi. Morgan fears her tongue
and she can keep him in check. He lost his father to the Great
Winter, and his death fuels his hatred of the followers of the
Moon. He is sympathetic to the Daughters of Mabodh whom
he feels have a birthright to Wulfsland.
Housecarl: Morgan Sword-Tongue gst
Bloodline: Sarostiping
Faction: Free Sartar
Age: 25
Keywords: Mercenary
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth g
Look: Curly dark hair; handsome; short dark beard;
tall; sarcastic sense of humor; skinny

HOUSECARL: ORLMAKT NINE-WINDS gsj
Orlmakt Nine-Winds accidentally broke the Dolutha’s sacred
spear ‘Ferfal’s Fire’ while guarding a Red Cow emissary. The
diplomatic mission ended in disaster, with the Dolutha,
ignorant of what had happened, believing the Red Cow had
deliberately broken their clan’s sacred treasure. The emissary
had to flee. The two clans’ bad blood now had another cause.
Orlmakt, too ashamed to admit his part, fled his home to
become a mercenary.
He began as a caravan guide, traveling as far as Balazar. Then he
fought for whoever would pay, in the many conflicts of the Pass.

From left to right: Ingkot Sharp-Eyes, Morgan Sword-Tongue, Orlmakt Nine-Winds

1623

147

Coming of age during the Lunar Occupation, he hates the
Empire. He initiated to Orlanth in secret, and when he took a
job, it was always to fight against the Empire.
Returning to Dragon Pass, he joined the rebellion. Eventually,
Morgan Sword-Tongue, a battle companion invited him home.
To everyone’s surprise, he returned with a Dolutha wife, Marlesta
the Pony Girl. Ortossi quickly welcomed such an experienced
sword among the housecarls.
Since the Battle of the Auroch Hills, Orlmakt has fought to
liberate the Dolutha from their Lunar sympathizing chieftain
Ivar Quickstep. He rails against the Sworn Knives mercenaries
who guard the Dolutha chieftain. Twisted Morganeth supports
him, but Broddi Strong-Kin has refused to help the Dolutha
rebels overthrow their chieftain.
Farandar Orendalsson and Orlmakt Nine-Winds are friends
from youthful adventures.
Housecarl: Orlmakt Nine-Winds gsj
Bloodline: Tormakting
Faction: Free Sartar
Age: 27
Keywords: Mercenary
Magic: Initiate of Orlanth g
Look: Clumsy; hooded-cloak; short brown hair; stubble

THE HERO WARS
SEA SEASON
Broddi replaces Farandar Orendalsson on the ring with Jarkorl
Snow-Whiskers, citing Farandar’s trip to the Battle of the Auroch
Hills as ‘desertion’ of the clan.
Jarkorl Snow-Whiskers focuses on organizing the Stealing of
the Giant’s Cows — no red cows were born to the clan during
the Great Winter and if the clan is to replenish its herds, it must
succeed this year. If the PCs have yet to participate in the quest,
Jarkorl will certainly approach the ‘heroes of the Three New Stars’
to lead it and ensure success for the clan. Jarkorl is under pressure
to succeed to prove he is worthy of the job. The heroquest is an
opportunity for the clan to bolster its Wealth Resource, by using
some of its Magic Resource.
There is continued trouble with the ghouls since the Great
Winter. Their numbers have swollen and they raid Torkani,
Dinacoli, and Cinsina clans for new thralls. The Red Cow
sponsors an expedition into the Woods of the Dead (see below).
The Blueberry clan asks for help when the Two-Pine demand
payment for the Wolf Tribute. The Blueberry doesn’t want to pay
these bullies, can the Red Cow help? See the Emissaries episode
for advice on how to run a mission to help friends.
Later, King Ranulf Stand-Tall of the Culbrea visits the ring
and demands payment of the Red Cow Tribute. “Now that
the Occupation is ending it is time ‘order was returned to the
farmyard,’” he tells the ring. A large warband accompany King
Ranulf in an effort to intimidate the Red Cow into compliance.
His thanes see this as an ideal opportunity to test the Cinsina’s

148

mettle, before asking for their old clans back. King Ranulf
outlines the options Sartar once set the clan: pay off the Culbrea
or they will take your cows by force.
Broddi is worried. The farmers are angry. The thanes are
ready for war. However, the Red Cow is just one clan and badly
outnumbered by the Culbrea. See the Cattle Raid episodes for
advice on how to run this.
More people begin flocking to the Three New Stars —
someone will probably suggest the Three New Stars needs
organization — Verlain Never-Doubt will raise the issue if the
PCs have not done so by this point. Verlain will approach the PC
who took the role of Orlanth in the Three New Stars heroquest
and remind them of the story of Orlanth’s Ring:
“We will sit in a circle,” Orlanth said, “And all who sit in this
circle agree to listen to each other before acting. That is the first rule
to keep peace among us.”
He also said, “I shall create a sacred Ring by selecting the most
suitable from among you. Whomever is selected will receive magical
gifts as a sign of office and authority.”
Verlain turns to the PC and says: “The Three New Stars must
have a ring, so that we can speak in peace.”
The organization of the ring is up to the PCs but Verlain will
suggest the positions of: Lhankor Mhy, Issaries, Hedkoranth,
Esra, Kero Fin, and Ernalda. He volunteers to be Hedkoranth.
The PCs will need to indulge in negotiations to fill the
positions on their ring. Note that although there are goddess
positions on the ring, most members of the cult will be male.
It is the positions of Food Keeper, Midwife, and Stead Mother
that may be more significant. Those who are disappointed may
harbor resentment against the PCs’ continued leadership.
Unless the leadership is careful, as the Three New Stars
become well known the mission in Red Cow Fort feels such
obvious worship of Orlanth cannot be tolerated. Sureela and
Bolik spy on the New Stars hoping to learn the leadership’s
identity through their contacts. If they do discover who the ring
is, Phargentes will declare the Three New Stars leaders to be
outlaws and sets a price on their head.
Being declared outlaw makes it difficult for the Three New
Stars leadership to enter Red Cow Fort without disguise.
Even then they risk betrayal. If informers do recognize them,
Phargentes and his troops will attempt to capture or kill them.
Like Ashart, the leadership will need to live on the run.
Most people in Dragon Pass are illiterate and communication
is via word of mouth so distance from Red Cow Fort makes the
PCs safer. In Dangerford, Stonegate, Jonstown, or Boldhome the
risk of recognition by an informer is low, and although it can
make a great adventure do not overuse it.
If the Three New Stars work with the rebellion Jomes may
well set the Moon Dogs on their trail, which may lead to episodes
escaping Lunar assassins.
Of course Culbrea lands are free — the leadership could head
there — but a feud is about to erupt between the Cinsina and
the Culbrea.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 6

FIRE SEASON
The Two-Pine raid into Red Cow lands, intent on killing and
taking swords as part of their Bloody Sword Tribute ritual. See
the Feud episode for advice on how to run this.
The feud escalates and the Culbrea and Cinsina are soon
at War. The conflict draws in the two tribes as each side sends
Emissaries in search of allies. The Culbrea recognize neither the
Empire nor Prince Temertain, so making peace is difficult. See
Peace Weaving for more on how to run this.

EARTH SEASON
Whilst traveling the PCs hear a prophecy of the Hero Wars (see
Sartar Companion, page 164).

DARK SEASON
Terrible news reaches the Red Cow from the Torkani: Mistress
Race Trolls active on the surface world! A great swarm of
thousands of trolls, trollkin, Dehori, and giant insects of every
sort has crossed over the western Rockwood Mountains into
Dragon Pass. The Torkani reports Tovtaros hunters describe
seeing them in Dagori Inkarth. At first, few chose to believe
them, but Minaryth Purple is said to be taking the rumors
seriously. No one is sure what the presence of Mistress Race
Trolls means — but everyone is sure it is bad for the humans of
Dragon Pass — where trolls have often ruled.

STORM SEASON
Broddi Strong-Kin is ousted as chieftain of the Red Cow.

SETTING CHANGES
There are about 1250 people in the Red Cow clan. Before
the Death of Orlanth and the Great Winter, there were about
1500, but the clan lost roughly a sixth of its people to violence,
starvation, and cold. Every family has lost many loved ones.
Of that 1250 people, about 690 are adults and the rest
are children. Of those adults, about 110 or so have lived long
enough to become elders of the clan (50+). They are roughly
equal numbers of men and women.

INTO THE WOODS
OF THE DEAD

do not organize a search, someone will. Sounding a horn, the
women summon the men back to the village to form search
parties. An old dress gives the village’s best hunting alynxes the
scent and the search heads out.
The PCs should be the ones to encounter the ambush laid
by the victim’s abductors who are lurking to waylay and deter
further pursuit. The PCs will first know that ghouls oppose them
when they hear the howl. NPCs might well flee, and PCs will
need to resist to stand their ground. Following the howl, the
ghouls will attack any who have not fled. Clad in scale armor and
wielding bronze swords, these are experienced killers. The ghoul
thanes should be High or Very High opponents.
If the PCs overcome the ghouls, they may free their captives
from a slave coffle.

CAST
Ghoul Thanes, Orkarl Iron-Beard, Sarostip Cold-Eye (Sartar
Companion, page 14), Darkot Strong-Thewed

SITUATION
Following the ghoul raid, Orkarl Iron-Beard persuades Broddi
to let him recruit swords for an expedition into the Woods of
the Dead. If the ghouls still hold Red Cow captives this will
be a rescue mission, and time will be of importance. If the
captives were freed, this will be a punitive expedition against
King Brangbane. Orkarl has raised support from Sarostip ColdEye from the Jonstown Humakt temple. The Humakti cause
tension in Red Cow Fort with the housecarls, who dislike armed
strangers about. Many of the locals complain their gardens wilt
from all the grim followers of death in the fort.

ACT, SCENES AND BEATS
HUMAKT’S HILL
The Humakti go first to Humakt’s Hill to offer sacrifices for the
coming expedition. This is an opportunity for the PCs to make
a significant sacrifice or oath to the gods (see Sartar: Kingdom
of Heroes page 86). Many NPC Humakti will make such vows.

THE WOODS

BEGIN WITH
Someone is missing from the village. It will help to draw the
players in if the missing person is a dependent or friend of one
of the PCs. If not, it is Brastala Dawn-Child who goes missing, a
young unmarried woman from the village. Her family is worried.
She was visiting a far-off pasture, taking her father some bread,
cheese, and ale for the mid-day meal he forgot to take with him
that morning. They fear the worst. Her mother imagines all sort
of dreadful scenarios, that she is lying with a broken leg dying
of exposure, or a Telmori raiding party has taken her. If the PCs

The Woods are supernatural and forbidding. Some of the
militia will fear entering the Woods of the Dead and will need
persuasion to press on instead of ‘guarding the mules’ for the
others. If the expedition is trying to rescue captives it will need
some means to find them, perhaps magic, or perhaps an alynx
offered a piece of clothing or treasured personal possession to
help them sniff out the trail. Alynxes will be hesitant to enter this
unnatural environment and may need coaxing.
Avoiding Patrols

Ghoul thanes patrol the woods to guard against intruders.
The expedition probably has scouts, perhaps PCs in advance,
and ghoul thanes might try to kill a scout if they see them
first. The goal is to kill the patrolling ghouls before they can
raise the alarm with their howl. Besides the effect of howling

1623

149

Brangbane, King of the Ghouls
ghouls on morale, the howl will travel from village to village
alerting all the Woods of the Dead. That warning will allow
King Brangbane to raise a large force of three to four dozen
ghouls to fight off the raiders.
The Village

The expedition reaches a ghoul village and tries to rescue human
captives. The ghouls are unlikely to surrender their thralls
without a fight, and will try to raise a howl, to alert other villages
and scare off the attackers. Overseers may fight as desperately as
the ghouls, aware they can expect little mercy from their fellow
inmates when freed. Ill-disciplined militia may break cover when
glimpsing sight of friends or family, ruining any ambush. After
the battle is done, a victorious expedition will see and hear of the
horrors of captivity by the ghouls.
Escape

With captives to protect, Orkarl and Sarostip agree escaping
is the best option over picking a fight with Brangbane’s forces.
Rounding up tired and beaten captives to escape proves a
challenge. Prisoners need to be broken free from their chains,
and they will take their vengeance on any surviving overseers.

150

Most of the captives are traumatized by their experiences and
likely to take panic at the first hint of pursuit, possibly scattering
into the woods when they hear the ghouls howling. Initially
the escaping expedition may only meet scouting parties. They
should try to kill scouts before they can raise the alarm.
Once the alarm is raised, the main body of the hunt will
join the howling and begin pursuit through the woods. There
are two-to-three dozen pursuing ghouls. If the ghouls pick up
the trail, heroic rear-guard actions to buy the refugees time to
escape may be the order of the day. Escape out of the woods and
into sunlight is likely to be a good conclusion, with the ghouls
choosing to howl in frustration from the shadows over heading
out into daylight.

PLAY OF THE GAME
This is a horror story and the focus is less on defeating the ghouls,
than on the discoveries the PCs make of the cruel mockery of
Sartarite life practiced by the ghouls.
Following the events of the Great Winter, this scenario
represents the clan being proactive, instead of just being pushed
around by events.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 6

Further expeditions, to face and defeat Brangbane himself are
possible, but outside the scope of this book.
The PCs might want to call upon the support of the Finger
Women during the escape; in fact the Game Master might wish
to remind them of this option. However, anyone who has broken
an oath to the House of Sartar finds that the Finger Women will
not come to their aid; instead the ghosts admonish them for
betraying their vows to the kingdom.

ELECTION:
A NEW CHIEFTAIN
On Clayday of Fertility Week, during an Ernaldan ceremony
called Loom Blessing Day, Darna Longcoat reads the omens for
the year ahead. “The ancestors are displeased with Broddi StrongKin,” she tells the women. “They will withdraw their protection
from us if we do not elect a new chieftain. The Red Cow needs a
chieftain for turbulent times, not a tired old appeaser.”
The Women’s Circle is shocked, but word of the auguries leaks
out, and soon the whole clan clamors to replace Broddi as the
chieftain of the Red Cow. Campaigning begins and carries on
until the moot in Storm Season.
Farandar Orendalsson makes his bid for the chieftaincy,
quoting the Forosilssaga: “A clan makes its own store of luck,
not from what its ancestors did, but from its own actions.”
He turns to his assembled supporters, “Too long the Red
Cow has relied on doing nothing — the policy of Broddi is
always to avoid conflict. You cannot avoid conflict, look at the
clan’s losses in the Great Winter. It is time for the Red Cow to
recognize they must make their place in the world, just as Umath
and Orlanth did.”

The husbands of the daughters of two of Vingkot’s sons
also have a cycle of foundation stories. They founded two
of the Star Tribes, the new tribes formed after Vingkot’s
death. The Star Husbands were gods or heroes who followed Orlanth into the Heavens but returned to protect the
people of their wife or lover. Their stories emphasize that
men make their own inheritance; to quote the Forosilssaga:
Land-loveless gold-thrower, third son’s daughter,
Born with naught but joined with proud raven-feeder.
A thundering storm gave them a fine dowry,
Held firmly with fierce battle-stave.
The Star Husbands founded their tribes out of the
remains of the Lastralgortelli, and protected them from
the Dara Happans.

CAST
Broddi Strong-Kin, Griselda Gray-Tresses, Kullina the Fat,
Farandar Orendalsson, Borngold Many-Brothers, Frekor
Deep-Woods

SITUATION

BEGIN WITH

THE STAR HUSBANDS

He then quotes Garan, the Star Captain ancestor of the Red
Cow: “Once I was just a herder on my lord’s lands, but with my
spear Ifrendal — I made a kingdom.”

Broddi is angry at Darna’s prophesy, but Ashart is insistent
before the ring — Broddi must go and the clan needs to elect a
new chieftain. Broddi and his household will be bitter at what
they see as a betrayal by Darna, feeling the clan is ungrateful for
the many sacrifices he made during the Occupation.
Ashart declares the election should take place at the Storm
Season moot, to allow Official Business to be conducted.
The Rivals (see page XX) represent alternative paths for the
Red Cow — all of which lead to increased conflict.
Kangharl’s message is one of war with the Dinacoli and the
Two-Pine — blood vengeance for old wrongs. The heart of his
support is at Tormakt’s Farm and the Tormakting bloodline.
Darna Longcoat is his strongest adherent; many people owe her
favors and Darna might move to collect. Darna expects Kangharl
to be her puppet when he is in power, regardless of the election
promises he makes. She can bring the housecarls and many of
the clan’s Ernaldans to his cause. Her beauty will sway the hearts
of several others. Many see Kangharl as the new chieftain in
waiting even before the election and he begins to hold meetings
of his ‘shadow ring’ at Tormakt’s Farm as an alternative to Broddi
at Red Cow Fort.
Borngold hates the Telmori and is determined to drive
them back to the Wolf Hills. Queen Ivartha might campaign
on his behalf, dispensing gifts liberally knowing Borngold
would bring support for her war against the wolfmen. Frekor
Deep-Woods backs him simply because he shares his fear of
the wolfmen. Kernalda Other-Ways will support him and may
sway some of the housecarls from Kangharl. Ortossi gives his
loyalty to Kangharl because he speaks of taking vengeance on
the Red Cow’s tribal enemies, but Borngold might hope to shift
his allegiance with dark tales of the wolfmen. The Kerenelling
bloodline might well support their kinsman, though Borngold
has fewer sworn men than the other candidates. Voranga ManySorrows is an asset to his election hopes, though she is too erratic
for the campaign trail.
Farandar wants to see support for the rebellion, and to drive
Jomes from Wulfsland. He would hope for support from the Free
Sartar faction. Kullina the Fat backs him though she demands
aid for the Daughters of Mabodh. Morgan Sword-Tongue and
Orlmakt Nine-Winds are friends and Farandar expects their
support. As a result, Farandar promises to oust Ivar Quickstep
from the Dolutha. Venharl Stormbrow would campaign on his
behalf, but he can only speak from hiding and so sends gifts to
those Farandar needs to influence.

1623

151

ACTS, SCENES AND BEATS
RUNNING FOR ELECTION
One of the PCs might decide to run for election. The clan particularly fetes the leader of the Three New Stars. If none of them
think of it, Orkarl Iron-Beard approaches one of the PCs (any
Orlanth initiate, probably whoever represented Orlanth on the

THE CLAN MOOT
The clan moot is where all of the adults of the clan have an
opportunity to gather and discuss issues facing the clan.
The moot is an ideal event for PCs to become involved
in clan politics.
The moot meets at least once a season; the ring meets
much more often in the interim. The moot lasts for a
number of days not hours, and the start is often timed
to coincide with Holy Days or other gatherings. The clan
market is often held at the same time.
There are four types of business at the moot:
• Ritual business: opens the moot. As with all
Orlanthi ceremonies it begins at dusk, when the
priests open the sacred space and summon the
good gods and goddesses. Sacrifices are made, the
entrails read for omens, and offal burnt on the altars
for the gods. Commonly only the chieftain, priests,
god-talkers, and other holy people attend, although
if the moot coincides with a Holy Day ordinary folk
join at sunrise for the main ceremonies.
• Official Business: the lawspeaker begins a recitation of a third of the law at dawn on the following
day, often influenced by any cases being brought
before the court. At noon, the Law Court convenes
with the chief and the ring presiding. They hear all
the jurors and plaintiffs and business continues
until done. This might take a day or two. The court
cases often draw big crowds, especially if the
people involved are notorious.
• Emergency business: deals with the seven dangers to the clan: strangers, foreigners, enemies,
hostile gods, disease, hunger, and Chaos. If serious
enough, the ring may decide to suspend normal
business and just discuss the threat to the clan.
• Unofficial business: occurs throughout the moot
because it is an ideal time for people to meet.
People gather with old friends to laugh, drink, and
gossip. Alliances are formed as thanes gift clansfolk
to win their support, especially if a public vote is
to be held. People always like it when the clan big
shots come knocking on their door to ask for their
support. Parents seek out the matchmaker to find
matches for children of suitable age. Entrepreneurial
folk trade surpluses or handicrafts and pottery and
bronze items from the people of Red Cow Fort.

152

Three New Stars heroquest) and suggests he will support their
candidacy for the chieftaincy of the Red Cow.
There are strict requirements for an Orlanthi chieftain and all
the candidates must prove themselves in the Chief Tests at the
Storm Season moot:
• Initiate of Orlanth.
• Healthy, spontaneous, just, and hospitable.
• Have two good horses, a metal helmet and byrnie, two good
swords, and six spears.
• Have a magical treasure.
• Three clan folk must vouch for them and relate deeds of
honor, judgment, and courage.
Fulfilling these conditions may create adventures in
themselves.
Winning Support

It is up to the PC how they chose to win support for their
candidacy. The Game Master will need to craft scenes around
visiting those with whom they have established relationships
over the preceding years. Orlanthi politics involves significant
horse-trading; this is a culture where a ‘gift demands a gift’ and
everyone expects something for their support: money, land,
cattle, position, and vengeance on their enemies. Many of those
whose support the PCs hope to win will have conflicting interests
and success will involve navigating a course between them.
Of course, nothing helps the PCs’ cause more than a block
vote, and winning over all the leaders of a faction. The support
of the Women’s Circle may also be vital, and with it influence
over their husbands.
Supporting a Candidate

It is possible the leader of the Three New Stars does not want to
stand for the chieftaincy. In that case, all of the candidates will
want to win the support of the Three New Stars to their candidacy.
Having the endorsement of the PCs who saved the Cinsina tribe
will be seen as likely to win a high proportion of the clan’s vote.
In this situation, the episode plays out as below, but the PCs’
focus is likely to be on joining their fortunes to the winning side,
or supporting a candidate who represents their beliefs.
Darna Longcoat

Darna Longcoat supports Kangharl through the web of debts the
clanfolk owe her. Some PCs may be amongst those who owe Darna
such a debt. She will seek this moment to call it in, asking them
to support Kangharl as chieftain. A PC may deny her request; in
that case, use any Ability indicating their indebtedness to Darna
Longcoat as a Flaw when negotiating with the remainder of the
clan. No Orlanthi likes people who do not honor their word.

THE STORM SEASON MOOT
Everyone is gathered in Red Cow Fort. The bothies fill with
people from across the clan lands, eager to vote for a new
chieftain. Everyone says, “Broddi Strong-Kin was a good man,
who saw us through troubled times,” but everyone agrees it is
time for new leadership.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 6

Horse Trading

You do not want to run NPCs contending with NPCs as the climax.
If a PC has entered the contest, we want the resolution to
be a one-on-one fight. For this reason the Game Master should
remove two of the candidates during the days of horse-trading at
the moot preceding the elections.
Amidst the bothies, people look for and promise each other
support. The candidates begin to get a feel for who the clan
supports and who may win. At that point some candidates
will drop out, reasoning they can gain more from joining their
fortunes to a candidate who will win, promising the support that
carries them over the finishing line, than continuing to fight on.
The safest choice for the Game Master is to choose who
opposes the PCs to create the clearest choice for the clan —
which of the Rivals (see page XX) most opposes the PCs’ views.
The PCs’ maneuvering might mean one or more of the Rivals
would tend to throw their support behind the PC candidate. In
this case, be fair to the PCs by giving them a contest to draw
these Rivals over to the PC. Use any Benefit of Victory from that
contest in the election. Note the positions on the ring desired by
the rival candidates for their support are mutually exclusive; if
the PC wants a candidate to take a lesser position, then make the
resistance one level higher (Nearly Impossible at most).
If nothing else presents itself, Kangharl is likely to end up with
the most support as events with the Culbrea work to his advantage.
If the PCs express little interest in the outcome, just have
Kangharl declared the new chieftain.
Kangharl has the greatest support of the candidates. He might
switch his support to a PC if they have been active in ‘taking the
fight’ to the clan’s enemies. The resistance to winning Kangharl’s
support will depend on the PCs’ actions in the feud against the
Emerald Sword and the Two-Pine. If the PC took an active role
in the feud, Kangharl may support him (Easy to Moderate); if

an appeaser, Kangharl will resist him (Very High to Nearly
Impossible). Decide the exact resistance depending on how much
the PC supports or opposes the goals of the Coming Storm faction.
Kangharl wants a place on the ring: he fancies Jarkorl SnowWhisker’s position as Barntar, perceiving himself as a leader of
the ‘common man.’
Farandar has less support than Kangharl. Many see him as
too aloof. His support comes from the rebels; his lieutenants in
the New Breathers work tirelessly on his behalf. He will support
the PC candidate, if the PC can demonstrate their support of
the Rebellion. The actions of the PCs in the Three New Stars
heroquest mean Farandar already regards them as ‘the right
kind of people.’ He wants either Barntar or Voriof on the PC
candidate’s ring. The resistance to gain Farandar’s support
depends on their support for freeing the Dolutha and Maboder.
If the PCs’ support one of these, it is High, if they support both,
it is Moderate, and if they support neither it is Very High. If the
PC is a Moon Wind, it is Nearly Impossible.
Borngold’s support derives from the Cinsina’s fear of the
Telmori — it is not an appeal based on a vision of a better future,
but one based on the horrors of the past, such as the damage
done by the wolfmen. Whilst nearly everyone agrees with him,
his message of fear does not attract the same kind of support that
Kangharl and Farandar have. However, if one of them was to
lose support, their followers would easily transfer to Borngold.
His most likely path to victory is as the compromise candidate.
Borngold will trade his support for the position of Voriof
on the ring and a promise to oppose the Telmori. It is High
to obtain if the PC promises to support the Wulfslanders, Very
High if he wants to drive them out.
Bolik Red-Turner, pushed by Sureela Far-Traveled, and
Ustarna Try-Much, and Tarkalus Bigger-Boat, begins to gather
the Moon Winds of the clan “with one voice.”

1623

153

Following the Great Winter, Bolik can call on over a
hundred supporters in the clan. He hopes to assure seats on
the ring for his supporters, by promising his block of votes to
someone else.
Bolik will approach the PC candidate to offer his support,
in return for any seat on the ring. Does the PC accept Bolik’s
aid? If not, one of the other candidates apart from Farandar will,
in return for supporting their goals. A PC will have difficulty
gaining both Farandar and Bolik’s support, as Farandar will
refuse to work with Bolik. Persuading Farandar to accept Bolik
on the ring has a Nearly Impossible resistance.
The Stump

The candidates all speak to the clan before the vote. The clan
gathers in the benches on the Mooting Stage and the candidates
for the chieftaincy take turns to speak before their kin,
persuading, cajoling, and bribing their way to victory.
This contest should use the Climatic Consequences table,
so it is possible to win but still suffer a state of adversity. This
represents the winner having alienated some or all of the clan in
their rise to power. Healing that injury requires reconciliation
with the injured parties.
Once the new chieftain has been decided, the whole clan rises
to their feet to shout their name, raising their voices so that the
gods might hear their thunder.
The chieftain would normally say his vows, but the Empire’s
ban on the worship of Orlanth means it must wait until the
chieftain can leave the fort and head to Grave Hill in secret.
Betrayal

Unless the PC agreed to add Bolik’s support, Sureela Far-Traveled
decides to ‘welcome’ the new chieftain into office by crucifying
the troublesome priest Ashart Dusk-Eater for holding Orlanth
worship at Grave Hill.
Knowing the Red Cow will want to induct their new chieftain
with the appropriate rites, they put their spies to work. Bolik
Red-Turner and Ustarna Try-Much work with members of the
clan who converted in the Great Winter to learn just when the
chieftain intends to take his vows.
The Game Master needs to play the situation out: how careful
is the new chieftain to avoid detection of his or her rites of office;
a naïve act of faith in all the clan’s loyalty to Orlanth could be a
costly first lesson. If they can discover the time and place, then
Phargentes Grinning-Scar turns up with detachment of Doblain
Dogeaters to arrest everyone.
If that happens, Ashart will be crucified outside the gates of
Red Cow Fort as a warning.
Afterwards Sureela ‘suggests’ to the new chieftain that
renouncing Orlanth and joining the Seven Mothers would be
the proper way to absolve his or her guilt. Treat attempts to
refuse as a Very High contest. Failure means that the Empire
imposes punitive taxes, reducing the clan’s Wealth by the level
of Defeat.
Re-Organizing the Ring

After the new chieftain’s election, the clan holds a victory feast
— and the new chieftain takes his place on the high table. Of

154

course, politics does not pause even for the feast; established
members of the ring want to know their fate, and those who
received promises of advancement and favor from the new
chieftain ask when they will be fulfilled.
For the new chieftain it quickly becomes clear everyone is
waiting for his decision on the ring so that the clan can get
back to day-to-day business. In addition, the ring is the new
chieftain’s first real test, can he or she balance the competing
forces in the clan?
Many PCs might be hoping for positions on the ring. Of
course if the chieftain appoints them to positions they cannot
deliver, they may find their tenure short. The chieftain risks the
clan’s Resources declining if poor leaders take on positions of
authority. Any PC in line for a position still needs to persuade
the chieftain to hand it over.
If a PC won the election, the Game Master should challenge
them with PCs and NPCs vying for the same position. They may
have already promised some positions, but this will not prevent
others making their case, and arguing what support they could
bring, or gifts.
If an NPC won the election then PCs may have to fight for
positions they were promised, or might choose to campaign for
positions they hoped to obtain if their candidate had been elected.

PLAY OF THE GAME
After giving the PCs the opportunity to save the tribe with the
Three New Stars heroquest, this episode gives the PCs a chance to
become the ‘movers and shakers’ within the Red Cow.
Not all Game Masters will be comfortable with the PCs as
the chieftain and the ring. In that case, you might want to ask
your players to roll up new characters. This is practical for the
day-to-day duties of the chieftain and his ring are often the dull
routine of running an economic co-operative of over a thousand
people.
Nevertheless, the Orlanthi have a hands-on approach to
leadership and it may be easier to answer the question ‘why is it
the PCs who would resolve this crisis’ if they are the leaders of
the community. For many players at this point of the game, the
chance to direct affairs is welcome.
Making the PCs the leaders of the clan also makes it easier to
engage them in conflict with Lunar, tribal, and rebel leaders. The
PCs are now the people these groups need to influence and the
PCs can interact with them now on an equal footing.
If the PCs are also the leaders of the Three New Stars band,
they now have considerable influence across the Cinsina. Queen
Ivartha will begin to treat them as near-equals and other clan
leaders will court them.
A final alternative is to mix the two styles of play. Put the
promoted PCs into semi-retirement, bringing them out for
‘missions of state,’ whilst playing day-to-day adventures with
new PCs.
If the chieftain does not have a Mastery Rune Affinity then
they should heroquest to obtain the Mastery Rune. There are
a number of well-known Orlanthi heroquests where a new
chieftain can prove his leadership to obtain this rune, known as
the “Crown Tests”.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 6

• Chapter 7 •

1624

CONFLICTS
DOLUTHA TROUBLES
Throughout the year, trouble continues with the
Dolutha.
Inganna Koscheisdottir begins actively stirring
up rebellion. She petitions Orstalor Spearlord to
launch raids on the Dolutha, targeting the farms
of Lunar converts. The Dolutha are poor and
have little plunder, but the raids undermine Ivar’s
leadership. The rebels recruit from the Red Cow
when organizing these raids.
Ivar Quickstep is furious at the rebels’ presence
at Red Cow Fort and the heightened status of the
Red Cow with the Three New Stars cult. He is
determined to teach the Red Cow some humility,
hoping that will dissuade the new chieftain from
backing any rebellion. To this end, he encourages
the young men of the clan to launch cattle raids.
We do not provide specific episodes for the
Dolutha trouble of 1624 but Game Masters
should use the material in Cattle Raid, Feud, and
Peace Weaving for inspiration.

THE DAUGHTERS OF MABODH
As rebellion stirs in Prax and the Holy Country, the
Daughters of Mabodh become more aggressive.

Enastara the Red convinces Venharl Stormbrow
and his Storm Rams to find common cause
with the Daughters. She points out that a blow
against Wulfsland strikes at Jomes and the Lunar
Occupation directly. Enastara begins working on
the rebels amidst the Red Cow, trying to persuade
them to join these raids — and provide a refuge
for the rebels doing the raiding. Kullina the Fat
and Farandar Orendalsson champion their cause
amongst the Red Cow.
This divides the clan. Many remember how
Jomes punished them in the settlement of the
feud with the Dinacoli. Others point to his
leadership in putting down the Telmori leader
Jogar Sog’s rebellion, and later decisions that
benefited the Red Cow. Many of the clan’s Moon
Winds are loyal to Jomes, and would inform on
rebels within the Red Cow who they knew were
supporting the Daughters.

THE HERO WARS
SEA SEASON

FREEFORM
From this point,
The Coming Storm
becomes necessarily
more freeform. The
PCs should have risen
to become community
leaders, and perhaps
even the chieftain and
ring of the Red Cow.
As such, the direction
of your campaign will
be informed by the
PCs’ reaction to wider
events. In these years,
the Game Master
will need to do more
preparation to create
episodes matching
the events in their
campaign. Review the
events here, and decide
how they will affect
your game.

Orstalor Spearlord begins raiding Dolutha farms
along the Creek. Orlmakt Nine-Winds gathers
spears from amongst the Red Cow to join the raids

THE NEW CHIEFTAIN
Note that play in this year will also depend on
outcome of leadership contest in 1623:
• Kangharl: If Kangharl wins there is
certain to be conflict with Dinacoli, as
Kangharl seeks revenge. He may also try
to settle scores with the Culbrea if the
feud was not settled in 1623. Kangharl
may try to make peace with the Dolutha
— they are after all part of the Cinsina
and the tribe’s manifest destiny.
• Farandar: If Farandar wins, support
for rebellion grows. He will encourage the undermining of Ivar Quickstep
with Dolutha rebels, and support the

Daughters of Mabodh against Jomesland.
If the feud with the Culbrea still rages,
Farandar will try to find a solution with
King Ranulf and ally with the rebels.
• Borngold: If Borngold wins he will
become more aggressive in actions
against the Telmori, and show considerable support for Jomesland.
The ousted Rivals may also make trouble for
the new chieftain, especially if they are not given
places on the ring, and may work against the
chief’s agenda. This may depend on how badly
they were defeated and thus the extent to which
they think they retain the support in the clan.

1624

155

with the Mudhens. Inganna and Orstalor are generous with the
plunder, which attracts ambitious youngsters to their service.
Ivar is no fool and realizes the Red Cow forms a large part
of the raiding parties. In revenge, the Dolutha raid throughout
Sea Season bringing calls from the farmers for more patrols to
prevent the raids and from others to steal Dolutha horses in
revenge.
The situation escalates and Ivar demands Illaro Broken-Back
does something. Illaro increases patrols along the Creek, and
orders Phargentes to help. When Orstalor proves effective at
‘drowning’ his units, Illaro enlists help from the Emerald Sword
clan. They begin a concerted campaign to take back control of
the waterways and the Dolutha’s border with the Creek.
Kallyr Starbrow aids in the raising of the Sky Ship, which returns
the Boat Planet to the sky for the first time since the end of the
Second Age. People are stunned by this and wonder what it means.
Queen Ivartha comes to speak to the Three New Stars
heroquesters to ask what they know; she sees them as her experts
on Heavenly affairs now. Many people worry the changes in the
sky portend evil, the doom of the world.
News reaches the clan of continued fighting in Esrolia
occupying some Heortlings and many Lunar troops. The Empire
is decisively defeated by the Warm Earth Alliance, at the Battle
of Pennel, a strategic ford. During the battle, the Solanthi and
Ditali deserted the Warm Earth Alliance for the Lunar Empire.
Harrek the Berserk, the White Bear of prophecy, a demigod of
destruction, is so enraged by the betrayal he leads an assault on
the Lunar forces turning the day. Many people are openly calling
High King Broyan the Liberator.
Following the battle, Orlanth’s Ring, now composed of eleven
stars instead of eight, triumphantly appears out of the Stormgate

and rapidly climbed a third of the way up the Sky Dome. On
that day, Orlanth is released from his fetters. Orlanth’s rites
succeed for everyone, not just the New Breathers, and without
the need for the Three New Stars Rites.
The Lunar Empire reels.
People across the world see this and those who have little
contact with Dragon Pass wonder what this new configuration
of Orlanth’s Ring portends. Women miscarry throughout
Peloria and people pray for the Red Emperor and Great Sister
to protect them.

FIRE SEASON
People start drifting away from the Three New Stars cult, now
they can get magic without their help.
The Lunar Army barely leaves its strongholds, unless Tatius
commands them. Although Sartar is slipping from his control,
Tatius cares little: once the Reaching Moon Temple is complete,
the kingdom can be brought back into line.
Enastara organizes raids against the Wulfsland settlers. Venharl
Stormbrow leads the Storm Rams against the settlers too.
Jomes is incensed by this and by the raids against the Dolutha.
In a conference in Dangerford, he tells Illaro to get control of the
security along the Creek.

EARTH SEASON
Argrath White Bull comes to visit the PCs. By this point, few
people perform the Three New Stars Rites — Orlanth magic
is available again, and their own priests take on the role of
explaining the ‘new stars’ in Orlanth’s Ring. See The Eleven Lights.
Following the harvest, the Puppeteer Troupe visits Red Cow
Fort (see, Sartar Companion page 164).

DARK SEASON

In 1624, Orlanth’s Ring returns — with 11 stars!

156

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 7

Harrek and the Wolf Pirates
plunder the City of Wonders
in the Holy Country.
Argrath White Bull had
already risen to the leadership
of the White Bull Brotherhood
amongst the Animal Nomads.
He now summons the hero
Jaldon Goldentooth and leads
the Praxians to sack Corflu.
Rebel Humakti assassinate
Prince Temertain. Only one
person weeps real tears at his
burning: Estal Donge.
Goram Whitefang dies
striving to defend his Prince, and
the Telmori blood connection
to the House of Sartar is
severed. The Telmori Royal
Guard disbands, abandoning
their homes in Boldhome, and
returns to the Wolf Ridges.
Across the clans of the
Jonstown Confederation people

rejoice — their Royal House is no longer ‘tainted’ by association
with the wolfmen. Queen Ivartha throws a celebration feast for
Goram’s death in the Great Hall at Red Cow Fort.

STORM SEASON
A herd of magical cloud sheep grazes on the clan’s lands (see
Sartar Companion, page 162).
In Prax, Argrath White Bull’s nomad horde liberates the city
of Pavis from the Lunars. The Lunar garrison refuses to surrender,
but the nomads shatter the city walls. After the victory, Argrath
demands the nomads put the garrison to the sword and the
nomad horde sacks the city.

and the Wolf Pirates. He has learned to weld those disparate
magicians into a unit by creating new secret societies focused
on a wyter. Argrath also became Illuminated by his Arkatworshiping companion, Mularik Ironeye, although since then,
his knowledge of mystical secrets now far outstrips Mularik.
With war with the Empire approaching, Argrath realizes
the Sartarites will need regiments of magicians to counter
those deployed by the Lunar Empire and he tries to recruit the
leadership of the Three New Stars to join them.

ACTS, SCENES, AND BEATS
THE SARTAR MAGICAL UNION

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS

Black Glass Ruins

BEGIN WITH

Farandar Orendalsson and Kullina the Fat approach the PCs
with news. “Argrath White Bull is in the Red Cow lands,” they
say, “he is at Black Glass Ruins, and he has asked to see the
heroes of the Three New Stars.”
Since the re-appearance of Orlanth’s Ring after the Battle of
Pennel support for the Three New Stars Rites has fallen away,
so for someone to ask the heroquesters to visit him is suddenly
unusual.
Kullina and Farandar do not know why Argrath seeks to meet
the Three New Stars leaders, just that he has delayed his journey
to speak with them.
If any of the PCs ask who Argrath White Bull is, Kullina answers.
“The Liberator (for that is what Argrath means) is an adventurer
and a very dangerous man. He summoned a Giant’s Cradle to float
down the River of Cradles to bring him to Harrek and the Wolf
Pirates. It is said that even the White Bear could not keep him dead,
so he became Harrek’s lieutenant. He sailed around the world and
brought the Wolf Pirates to Esrolia to free it from the Empire. He
hates the Red Moon and knows its secret weaknesses. He knows
secrets no man should know, but is favored greatly by Orlanth.”

CAST
Farandar Orendalsson, Kullina the Fat, Chief Kozakang, Argrath
White Bull,

SITUATION
Argrath White Bull is traveling to nearby Jaldon’s Rest — a stone
cairn on the border with Prax where the Praxian hero Jaldon
Goldentooth is buried. There Argrath and the White Bull
Brotherhood intend to raise the ancient hero to lead an army of
Praxians to liberate Pavis.
To reach Prax from the Holy Country, where he has been
fighting alongside Harrek, Argrath has traveled through Sartar.
His route has taken him to Clearwine, where he has kin, and
the Hill of Orlanth Victorious, where he joined the worship of
Orlanth with Kallyr Starbrow and Ranulf Stand-Tall.
Traveling into Cinsina lands he wants to meet with the heroes
who brought the Three New Stars into the Sky — an event
Argrath witnessed from the far south of Glorantha.
In his circumnavigation Argrath worked with magicians
from many different traditions amongst the adventurers of Pavis

Although it is fall, the Black Glass ruins already feel like winter.
The shadows across the ruins are long and blot out the weak sun.
People shiver. The shadows move, sliding up and over walls and
through alleys, as if alive.
The ancient town here was melted, as if someone had left
a city made of wax out in the hot sun too long. Dragon fire
liquefied the buildings, walls and roads; the heat turned stone
into obsidian. The sharp edges of the obsidian threaten to cut the
hands, feet, elbows and knees of a careless traveler.
Insects buzz and skitter everywhere. Fist-sized ham beetles fly
through the air, some are caught in webs by spiders the size of
alynxes; the spiders inject their ensnared victims with poison to
turn their insides into a mush they can drink later.
This is an alien place, a place of darkness, and a place for
trolls.
Argrath has camped out here with some three-dozen
companions, bivouacked in one of the larger ruins. Argrath is
moving with stealth, to avoid Imperial entanglements as he nears
his destination at Jaldon’s Rest. The largest group of followers
is Esrolian, but there are Wolf Pirates, and even more exotic
foreigners in their numbers.
As such, he does not meet with either Queen Ivartha or the
Red Cow chieftain (unless the chieftain is a PC or Farandar).
Both those groups may be offended if they later discover the PCs
met with Argrath, and believe the PCs have made choices about
whom they will support in the Hero Wars — Kallyr Starbrow
and the rebels.
The Sazdorf

As PCs arrive, Sazdorf trolls led by Chief Kozakang (see Sartar
Companion page 234) are leaving from a conference with Argrath.
Lagor the Sword-Troll and his sword-wielding trollkin marching
in step behind them, accompany him. In addition Kozakang is
accompanied by a dark troll assistant and his four trollkin slaves,
who carry their baggage. As they leave the conference, they are
bowed so low they are practically supine, but upon seeing the
PCs they rise up into a battle stance.
The PCs might have met Chief Kozakang during the Great
Winter. He won’t recognize them — but the PCs might bear a
grudge for the Sazdorf demands for Arkat’s Tax during the Great
Winter. How do they feel about the ‘king of the trolls’ speaking
with Argrath?

1624

157

Argrath

Argrath teaches the Eleven Lights the secrets of the
Sartar Magical Union

158

Sentries note the approach of the Red Cow party, but Farandar and Kullina
know the password to give and the group is ushered through.
Argrath and six close companions are poring over maps spread over a
trestle table.
Argrath and his companions look odd. You recognize Argrath’s Sartarite
tattoos, but many others are strange to you. He is a clean-shaven man with
long red hair and orange eyes. He has a strange rune of three arrows, each
pointing in a different direction, tattooed on his forehead.
He wears unfamiliar clothing — a wrap-around skirt and ornate tunic
made of silk. His face is weathered from sun and salt, and upon seeing the PCs
he smiles as if at some private joke.
His companions are odder still — one is a dark-skinned Agimori from
the West and another has a slate-blue skin, darker than any member of the
Kerenelling bloodline and one eye forged out of iron. There are others too:
an Esrolian Earth Priestess; a Yelmalion lord; and a strange Praxian woman
wearing silk trousers. The only companion that might be familiar is Tosti
Runefriend, a Lhankor Mhy sage from Jonstown.
One of Argrath’s companions whispers in his ear and another brings Argrath
a bowl and a towel and he washes his hands. The bowl is then offered to the
PCs. Argrath nods and walks over to the PCs. He begins the Greeting ritual
with them, welcoming them to his camp.
“Strangers! Who comes this way, to a place not allowed to everyone? Do
you come in friendship, or as a foe?” Argrath asks.
The leader of the PCs should respond they are friends to continue the ritual.
“I am the Liberator and the White Bull. I am the Destroyer. The Avenger.
The Red Moon’s Other. I am the King of Battles. The Turner. The Twisting
Wind. I am the Savior of the Elder Giants. I am the one the White Bear
could not keep dead. I sacked cities with Harrek the Berserk and stole secrets
from across the world.
“I freed Orlanth.
“I am Arkat and I have returned to Liberate the world from Gbaji.
“If you help me, I will help you. A gift for a gift.”
If the PCs balk or ask what connection Argrath has to them, he pauses and
says: “I am a Sartarite. I grew up on the Starfire Ridges, amongst the Orlmarthi.
The Lunars murdered my kin and I fled to the Wastes after I avenged them. An
old friendship exists between the Orlmarthi and the Red Cow, and Orlanth
says that friends are better than treasure, and I would count the Red Cow
amongst my friends.
“I have other claims upon your loyalty, but it is not right to invoke
them now.”
Sharp-eyed PCs (or those specifically asking about his tattoos) notice
that Argrath is tattooed with the same runes of the House of Sartar as Kallyr
Starbrow is!
Once the introductions are complete Argrath will ceremoniously offer the PCs
‘water’ — and has his companions serve the PCs bowls of refreshing Clearwine
from an amphora in the room; Argrath will offer the PCs ‘a blanket to sleep
under’ — and his companions bring forth finely patterned woolen blankets from
Esrolia; he offers the PCs ‘meat’ — and his companions bring forth a selection of
fine roast meats: mutton, beef, bison, and ham beetle.
Finally, he says: “And I offer you more: duty, which is offered only those
who would sit close to me, in my family.”
The PCs can refuse of course. If they do, Argrath will thank them, be polite
in the hope that he can approach them again, but dismiss them to resume
planning his journey to Jaldon’s Rest.
If the PCs accept, Argrath smiles and says, “Although Orlanth’s Ring has
returned to the Sky, the work of the heroes of the Three New Stars has not

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 7

ended. Your role lies in the Hero Wars. You were once the Three
New Stars, but you must become the Eleven Lights!
“If Sartar is to be free we must have magicians who can beat
the Lunar College of Magic on the field of battle,” he tells them.
“I know a way to create a bond between you, something like a
clan, and something like a ritual. I will find a wyter for the Eleven

ARGRATH’S COMPANIONS
MULARIK IRONEYE
Arkati Illuminate. From Rindland, originally of the zzaburi
caste and descended from Arkat with some Darkness
blood. He is Illuminated and is a fierce warrior despite
being a sorcerer. He has dark blue skin and ascetic features; one eye is made of iron, able to see into the Other
World and view the world with RuneQuest Sight.

ELUSU THE TRICKSTER
Illuminated Trickster. Originally of the High Llama Tribe,
Elusu failed her clan initiation rites and survived, after
murdering her own family. She met Argrath as a fellow
slave of the Bison Tribe. She gains magical power through
transgressing against cultural and mythical norms. Sex,
murder, drugs, and mad behavior all give her power —
preferably combined.

SIR NARIB
Western sorcerer. An adventurer from Pithdaros, Narib was
once a sorcerer in the service of King Rikard of Malkonwal.
When his king fled from the Lunar Empire in 1620, Narib
formed a “company” with the surviving sorcerers; Sir
Narib’s company found its way to Esrolia. He entered into
Argrath’s service after the Battle of Pennel Ford.

Lights, and that will let you join your power and give it to your
leader. The sum of your abilities will allow you to work greater
magic than you each could on your own.
“One amongst you must be the High Priest, and he will lead
the ritual I teach you to create this magical union. The wyter will
communicate with the High Priest. The High Priest must choose
three Chief Priests to serve him, one for each of your patron
gods — the Three New Stars. Each Chief Priest must in turn
find three Priests to serve them, who in turn must command
three followers.
“Some amongst you may feel you have little magic to offer.
You can contribute as well. You will need a Chief Bodyguard to
report to the High Priest — and he must recruit housecarls to
defend you when you conduct your rituals. The High Priest and
Chief Bodyguard may need men of the camp too.”
Let the PCs decide roles.

THE EGG MAN
Grave Hill

Argrath, Farandar, and Kullina take the PCs to Grave Hill
to perform the ceremony to create their union. Argrath’s
companions make quick work of killing the Lunar guards at the
temple. Treat this as an Arduous Auto-Success.
Argrath brings one of his men to fetch a Wind Hawk egg,
which he presents to the High Priest. “This will be the soul of
your regiment, do not allow it to be taken in battle or destroyed.
If that were to happen the Eleven Lights will no longer be a
union and your magic will fail.”
Argrath explains nothing else about the egg for now.
Argrath leads the ceremony, sacrificing two red cows and
opening the sacred space for the gods. Lesser gods crowd around,
drawn by the sacrifices of the living.
Hatching the Egg

TOSTI RUNEFRIEND
This Lhankor Mhy priest has traveled to Kralorela and
learned forbidden magic of both the EWF and the God
Learners. He has quested to climb the primeval Spike,
seeking the secrets of the Runes at the very feet of the
Celestial Court.

TARKALA THE LOVER
Illuminated Earth Priestess. This snake priestess of
Ernalda from Esrolia grants power and counsel to the
lovers she chooses. She helped liberate the Goddess
from the Underworld and has mastered many secrets
of life and death.

RURIK RUNESPEAR
Illuminated Yelmalio Light Son. Perhaps the most famous
Yelmalio cultist from Pavis, Rurik Runespear joined Argrath
to defend the Giant’s Cradle against his fellows in Sun
County. He accompanied Argrath on his voyage around
the Homeward Ocean, and has experienced the vision
of the Many Suns.

Before the ritual to find a wyter for the Eleven Lights, Argrath
sits down to speak to the assembled leadership of the Three New
Stars. He wears no tunic, and he is tattooed with dragons, strange
birds, and even Arachne Solara and her web! Argrath carries a
blue sword that looks like it was carved out of bone, and in his
other hand he holds a strange bronze thunderbolt.
“Today we will make a new thing,” he begins.
“The Path of Highest Magic requires Liberation. One must
destroy all concepts and rest in the space of emptiness to walk the
Path of Highest Magic.
“To truly be Orlanth, you must do what Orlanth could not
or would not. You must train to share the same breath as the god,
to face what he could not as he would have.
“You must master not just the Four Breaths but also the
Three Secret Breaths, which are harmony, self-extinction, and
total consciousness.”
He raises his strange blue sword in his left hand, “You must
cut the Dragon Head off yourself, take it with your left hand and
make it part of you. You must slay the dragon and wield its power.”
There are murmurs amongst the Three New Stars — what
does Argrath speak of? This sounds like the talk of the Empire of
the Wyrms Friends or even Lunar Riddlers?

1624

159

“You must scatter yourself on the winds, so that you do not
exist. Only then can you master all.
“You must couple with the goddess and become one with
the world in order to liberate yourself. As the world, you can
transcend it and yet not be devoured by the Void.
“You must become One with your Other so that you can give
birth to something new.
“You must devour yourself so that you can give birth to an egg
that creates us new. Let us devour our inner self so that we might
give birth to some with the power to defend us from our enemies. ”
As if on command, there is an awful sound like thunder and
the egg held by the High Priest begins to crack. Winds begin to
rise. The participants feel a terrible pain in their abdomen —
mothers will recognize them as the pangs of labor.
“We must hatch an egg, and give birth to something new.
This will be your creation story, and when you remember these
rites, you will be able to work together.”
The labor pains intensify.
“So I call upon the gods and goddesses to come forward, and
decide who will support them in their path.”
Many of the priests cry out in fear and pain.
The Hatching of the Eleven Lights

The PCs must choose amongst the lesser gods Argrath has
summoned to inhabit the chick.
To emulate this, run the Clan Generation Questionnaire
(see Sartar: Kingdom of Heroes, page 37) to generate the Eleven
Lights wyter.
However, do not ask questions that occur in The Era of Time
— the union does not yet have a history.
In addition, the lesser gods Argrath summoned have some
things in common, and so the answer to some questions is fixed,
and should be provided by the Game Master, and some are more
constrained so the answers must come from a lesser set.
2. The Treasured People — 2 Full Dish and Spoon.
5. Why You Joined Orlanth — Only answer 1-4.
6. Your Earliest Famous Event — Only 1-5.
7. Ancient Enemies — The magical union gains ancient enemies
from the Three New Stars that they picked.
		
Varnaval the Shepherd King –Dara Happans.
		
Siwend the Hunter — Dogs.
		
Korolful the Keen — Ogres.
		
Baroshi, the Avenger — Scorpion Men.
		 Saren, Elmal’s Charioteer — Trolls.
		
Oonil the Skillful — Bandits, Thieves and Pirates.
		
Tanian, the Fiery Waters — Rivers.
12. The Die Off — 4. A Star Captain, fell screaming from the sky.
15. The Heortlings — Only 2. a-e We followed a great hero who
came down from the Heavens.
The wyter does not have a history of awakening a deity at the
Dawn, but the PCs awakened the patron deities of their union
— the Three New Stars.
At the end of this, the new magical union will have likes
and dislikes just like a clan. Anyone who joins the union gains
those new prejudices. They might be in conflict with existing

160

prejudices from membership of the Red Cow clan. That is
something the player will have to decide the PC chooses
amongst during play.
Some choices may cause real tensions for the Eleven Lights,
such as enmity with the Rivers leading to tension with Wandle
and Orstalor Spearlord, or hostility to Bandits, Thieves and
Pirates causing tension with the Wolf Pirates.
The final ceremony, Service for Two, takes a night and a day.
Argrath sacrifices a red and black bull, draining the blood into a
bowl (perhaps the Cauldron of Ver if the PCs obtained it). He
then asks each person who would join the community to come
forward, prick their thumb, and add their blood to the bowl.
The High Priest should be first, followed by the Chief Priests
and so on.
Argrath pours the bowl over the chick, which shimmers with
a silvery light, which gradually fades.
The Eleven Lights forms a new community in the game and
you should begin to track its Resources. We provide the initial
Resource numbers for these.
The Game Master and the players should work out the wyter’s
abilities from the mythic history together. However, depending
on the Three New Stars the PCs returned, the wyter gains one
Ability for each of patron deity. In addition, the wyter gains the
Ability of Starfire described below, representing its connection
with the stars that fell to aid the people during the Darkness.
• Varnaval the Shepherd King — Iron Ram Charge.
• Siwend the Hunter — Sky Bow.
• Korolful the Keen — Shooting Star.
• Baroshi, the Avenger — Burn Chaos Thing.
• Saren, Elmal’s Charioteer — Star Javelin.
• Oonil the Skillful - Move as One.
• Tanian, the Fiery Waters — Burn Water.

ELEVEN LIGHTS RESOURCES
Magic: 12W
War: 9W
Morale: 18
Peace 18
Wealth: 12

ELEVEN LIGHTS WYTER
Manifests As: Wind Hawk.
Runes: The combined runes of the Three New Stars.
Abilities: The abilities manifested by the wyter depend on the
mythic history of the wyter and the Three New Stars patron
deities chosen by the PCs.
In addition the wyter always has the Starfire Ability.
All of these abilities require a ritual to perform, a slight
variation of this: the priests set up three altars, one for each patron
god, and a Chief Priest performs sacrifices to that patron deity
with his assistant Priests and followers. In the center the High
Priest stands with the Storm Hawk circling above, summoning
and directing the power.
The magical effects here are powerful, capable of a range of
20-25 miles and affecting regiments — they only function when
the magicians act in concert. The exact range and power depends

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 7

Because this ritual takes time, the bodyguard provides
protection for the ceremony when it takes place.
Starfire — The Eleven Lights have the ability to summon
a rain of starfire from the Heavens. First the Three New Stars
in Orlanth’s Ring flare, then it becomes clear that something is
falling from each of them, with a silvery trail lighting the sky
behind it. As they fall the shooting stars begin to break apart,
into smaller stars, all falling toward the ground. These stars break
apart in turn and when they get closer have a fiery trail behind
them. By the time the falling stars come close to the ground,
they are incandescent white-hot fragments filling the sky over
the battlefield and hard to look at — at night they illuminate
the whole battlefield — and bright white flame and smoke trails
behind them. When they strike the ground they burst, showering
white-hot lumps burning remorselessly through clothes and
armor. The fragments cannot be easily extinguished and burn
their victims through to the bone.

WIND HAWKS
Tarena bred children of mortal form. She herself never
landed from her endless flight until the Golden Archer
brought her down with a magical arrow, a magical friend,
and a curse. After she fell, the Great Archer took pity on
Tarena. He took shape just like hers, built a nest atop a
tall tree, and helped raise the first brood of hawks. These
Wind Hawks are sacred to Orlanth, and seek to destroy
all eagles for their lord.
The Wind Hawk is a raptor with short, broad wings
and a long tail. It is brown above and barred brown or
white below with a dark brown or black barred tail. They
have a black eye stripe and dark red eyes. Females are
significantly larger than males. Males, 18–22” long with
a 35–41” wingspan. The female is much larger, 23–25”
long with a 43–50” wingspan.

Farewell

upon the number of magicians working together. If they are
below strength, the effect described here is weakened.
The Eleven Lights have one limitation — they can only use
their magic when Orlanth’s Ring is in the Sky, not when Orlanth
is in the Underworld.
The ritual renders the priests helpless — they must perform a
‘hatching’ to bring this magic into the world, and like a woman
in labor they are physically helpless at this time.

With his work here done, Argrath prepares to depart. He
encourages the PCs to cultivate the Eleven Lights, heroquesting
to learn more of the powers of their patron deities and filling out
their ranks with the magicians and priests they need. “The Hero
Wars are coming, and your future lies in the wars that will decide
the fate of every living being in Dragon Pass.
“And now I must go and awaken an old enemy!”
With that Argrath and his men depart.

1624

161

• Chapter 8 •

1625

CONFLICTS
THE DRAGON RISE
Despite the major setbacks of the past two years, the Empire
pursues its plan to open a new Temple to the Reaching Moon.
Tatius tells his lieutenants, agents, and client kings all resistance
will be swept away once the Temple to the Reaching Moon is
completed.
In 1625, when the stars are right, the Empire begins the
inauguration ceremony for its new temple. Kallyr Starbrow
directs a commando raid to disrupt the ceremony, raising a
Dragon under the temple. The monstrous Dragon kills the
Empire’s local leaders, assembled priests, magicians, and many
of their best troops and obliterates over half the Imperial Army.
With most of the Empire’s army gone, Kallyr Starbrow raises
the people in rebellion, driving the remaining garrisons from the
towns and cities.
A hastily mustered Sartarite army liberates Boldhome and
goes on to besiege Jonstown. The rebel army, aided by insurgents
within the town, storms the city walls and overcomes the
garrison.
With the Empire’s military forces routed, attention turns to
preparation for the Emperor’s inevitable counter-strike. Kallyr
Starbrow tries to build an army to keep Sartar free.

THE HERO WARS
Kallyr Starbrow leads a great quest and raises the Younger Storm
Dragon. This disrupts the ritual to empower the new Reaching
Moon Temple, while the Dragon devours the Lunar Army in
Sartar.

SEA SEASON
The Lunar Army defeats Argrath at Moonbroth. The Lunar
Field School summons another demon. Despite initial reports,
Argrath is not killed and retreats to Pavis.
The Lunars defeat and kill Broyan. Lunar magicians from the
Field School of Magic use terrible magics to summon and bind a
demon they direct to murder him.

FIRE SEASON
There is a rebellion in the Grazelands. The Stallion King sends
the Lunars home with dirt when they come for their annual

162

tribute. King Pharandros of Tarsh puts down the rebellion.
Recruiters come to the Cinsina looking to hire cavalry to take
part in the fighting. The Red Cow and Dolutha have no love for
the Grazeland Pony Breeders and some join King Pharandros’
forces, riding out with the Phargentite cavalry who go to help.

EARTH SEASON
On Black Moon (or Clay) day, Harmony week, at the new
Temple to the Reaching Moon, Lunar magicians attempt to call
down Heaven to earth with a great ritual dance — with each
person representing a star. A red nimbus appears around the
black moon, and they see it begin to flicker.
Kallyr Starbrow leads a small band of rebels to disrupt the
opening ceremony of the New Reaching Moon Temple. They
follow the myth of How Orlanth Conquered the Stars to invade
the ceremony, and at the key moment when Orlanth meets
Sh’harkazeel the Sky Dragon in the myth, the great dragon
slumbering below the new Lunar temple awakens. In four bites,
it swallows all the Lunar magicians, Lunar officials, Sartarite
turncoat leaders, and the gathered Lunar regiments. Then it
turns over once, knocking down everyone for twenty miles
around, and leaves a crack in the earth stretching for ten miles.
In Sartar, only the garrisons in the cities and forts remain
now — and Jomes in Boldhome has fewer than 2000 men, most
of his regiments are at quarter strength following the Battle of
the Auroch Hills and the Dragonrise. These are too few to resist
an uprising.
Kallyr musters an army from the rebel forces across Sartar and
whole tribes including the Culbrea. They march on and seize the
city of Boldhome from its leaderless and under strength garrison.
The Cinsina and other tribes of the Confederation rise to
overthrow their local garrisons, and join with Kallyr to take
Jonstown.

DARK SEASON
King Pharandros of Tarsh reacts to Starbrow’s revolt by sending
a Tarshite army to reinforce Lunar rule in Alda-Chur — Harvar
Ironfist was killed in the Dragonrise. With the north secure,
the Tarshite generals plan a counter-attack to bring Sartar back
under their heel.
Kallyr Starbrow petitions the tribes to provide troops for the
fight. She is only moderately successful, and an outnumbered,
ragtag army marches to meet the Tarshites. They clash at
Dangerford, and the rebels take the day through sheer inspiration.
Following a meeting in Boldhome Kallyr, forges a new ring of
Sartar and those present declare her Prince of Sartar.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 8

THE STORM BREAKS!
BEGINS WITH
Orstalor Spearlord is camped in Wandle Bog. The Mudhens are
with him; many have injuries and have obviously been in a fight.
He summons those who have aided the rebellion: Kullina the
Fat, Farandar Orendalsson, Enerin Bristle-Beard, and Kernalda
Other-Ways. In turn, they ask the ring and chieftain to come, in
secret, to a meeting in the bog.
Do the PCs have the trust of any of these people? If so, they
are invited too. Everyone knows something big has happened.
People talk of a major Lunar military disaster in the south.
Everyone saw Orlanth’s Ring rise on the wrong day, and journey
across the sky in six hours, and the dragon-shaped cloud that
covered the moon on e/l/e. The priests have been trying to
understand what these portents mean.
In Red Cow Fort, Phargentes Grinning-Scar and Estavia
GoldEyes are nervous — but seem to have no more idea than
anyone else what has happened.
The Empire interrogates anyone who comes through Red
Cow Fort from the south.

CAST
Orstalor Spearlord, Kullina the Fat, Farandar Orendalsson,
Enerin Bristle-Beard and Kernalda Other-Ways, Voranga
Many-Sorrows, Wandle, Bolik Red-Turner, Ustarna Try-Much,
Willandring the Giant, Jomes Hostralos

SITUATION
Word of the liberation of Sartar is spreading only as fast as the
survivors of its battles. The result is that the many Imperial
garrisons are unaware their high command has been wiped out.
The events in the sky on the night of the Dragonrise, when
everyone saw Orlanth’s Ring rise on the wrong day and spiral
around the sky in a mere six hours, has filled the garrisons with
foreboding, but they are as yet unaware of what it signifies.
Jomes was not at the inauguration of the New Temple of the
Reaching Moon, but at Boldhome. The rebel command believes

him dead in the fall of that city — though no one has recovered
a body. Jomes managed to escape, and is heading for Stonegate,
in the hope of securing his own lands and holding out for relief
from Tarsh.
Until he and his companions reach Stonegate, no word will
pass through official channels to Red Cow Fort, Dangerford, or
Jonstown — giving the rebels the advantage of surprise.
Kallyr Starbrow has tasked Venharl Stormbrow with leading
her host to conquer Jonstown, and he makes his way to the
tribal kings and queens of the Jonstown Confederation: Malani,
Culbrea, Cinsina, and Torkani. In the meantime Kallyr’s other
followers, such as Orstalor Spearlord, fan out to the forts, aware
those clans will not join the siege of Jonstown whilst their own
lands remain occupied.

CONNECTED EPISODES
War

ACTS, SCENES AND BEATS
RED COW RISING
The trip through Wandle Bog requires guides for those who do
not know the way, and sacrifices at the bridges to honor Heler.
When the PCs arrive, they find Orstalor sitting with two
women; one is Voranga Many-Sorrows his sometime lover and
the other, a woman with long flowing hair, but made of water is
Wandle, the nymph of the Heort Creek.
When everyone is assembled, Orstalor reveals: “Boldhome
has fallen to Kallyr Starbrow. She leads our rebel forces — we
call ourselves the Candle Dancers since the Shiprise. Along with
the Culbrea tribe — the Headhunters, we took back the city. She
put the garrison to the sword.”
There is a commotion and as everyone asks questions Orstalor
tells the story of the Dragonrise, “Most of their command, all
their magicians, and half their army, all wiped out in an instant.
Now is the time for us to rebel. Kallyr is liberating her own
Kheldon tribesmen. We must liberate the clans of the Jonstown
Confederation now. You must take back Red Cow Fort!”
Not all of those present jump at the chance to raise the clan
in rebellion. The usual suspects from the Eye of the Hurricane
faction speak out. Kallyr Starbrow has failed once before, they

In 1625, the Dragonrise breaks the Empire’s rule of Sartar

1625

163

remind everyone, “We liberated Jonstown once before. The
Empire took Sartar back and punished the leaders.”
The debate turns on belief; no one other than Orstalor has seen
liberated Boldhome, or witnessed the Dragonrise. But everyone
felt the Earth tremble and saw the gigantic True Dragon in the
sky spiraling around Dragon Pass and circle Mount Kero Fin.
Is the Empire really a spent force in Sartar and Heortland?
Orstalor and the Free Sartar faction try to convince everyone of
the truth of that, the followers of the Eye of the Hurricane try to
persuade people to caution.
Betrayal

Wandle suddenly stands up, looking around and speaks:
More than gentle breezes stir,
In sedge and rustling reed.
Unwelcome ears take heed,
Lurk and listen as we confer.
There is a start from within nearby bushes and the sound of
people running.
“Stop them,” cries Orstalor, “before they can warn the garrison.”
The spies are Bolik Red-Turner and two Sardaling fishermen
who brought him into the marsh in coracles. Now they try to
paddle away, hoping to lose their pursuers in the bog.
Wandle can guide the pursuers, she knows what happens
within her own waters, but as the pursuers are on foot, they have
to take a longer route to catch the spies. Allow pursuing PCs to
use the clan’s Magic Resource rating to Augment their pursuit,
representing Wandle’s aid.
If the PCs capture the spies, they should not kill them, after
all, they are kin, and that would be kinstrife. There are two
options here. The first would be to hand them over to Orstalor
for punishment; Orstalor is not keen on the idea of being judge,
jury, and executioner. The second is for the chieftain to outlaw
them. For now, though it is most likely that everyone simply
decides to tie them up.
If the spies escape, the Lunar garrison will get news of the
events of the Dragonrise and warning of the plan to liberate Red
Cow Fort. They will shut the citadel and send messengers to
Stonegate and Dangerford asking for reinforcements.
Capture the Citadel

If the PCs have the advantage of surprise, the drawbridge to
the Lunar citadel in Red Cow Fort is down, although guarded.
Four guards stand on one side of the ditch, two stand on the
other, with another four on duty by the block and tackle used to
raise the drawbridge over the ditch. Two guards also stand in the
watchtowers at either side of the gate.
Orstalor will point out the goal of any assault has to be to
capture the gate before the drawbridge can be raised. If the
drawbridge is taken, even if the gates are closed a ram can be
brought to them. If the drawbridge is closed, it will be impossible
to get a ram to the gates.
Orstalor’s suggested plan is to disguise rebels as merchants
looking to trade supplies with the garrison. The supplies will be
in an ox-cart and concealed within it will be four men, who will

164

join the two merchants in trying to kill the winch operators.
Meanwhile, with weapons concealed by cloaks, the remainder
of the Red Cow assault party will hide amidst the bothies and
houses, charging forward in support when the moment is right.
Orstalor is open to suggestions on ways to improve this plan,
especially if they make use of PCs’ abilities. He will press the issue
of time however — an over-elaborate plan will likely fail, simply
because word may reach the Lunar garrison of the Dragonrise.
The PCs should be included in the party trying to capture
the gate.
Run this as an Extended Contest with a graduated prize
of survival and preventing the drawbridge being raised. This
means that a PC might choose to sacrifice their life to ensure
the drawbridge is not raised, use the rules for Pyrrhic Victory
in that case.
In addition to the guards on the inside of the drawbridge,
the PCs will need to contend with those in the gate towers who
shoot sling stones and throw javelins at them (treat as an assist to
embattled Lunar soldiers).
If the PCs capture the windlass for the drawbridge, the Red
Cow warriors will be able to storm the citadel.
If Bolik has betrayed the Red Cow the drawbridge will be
shut and the gates closed, the Lunar garrison will be manning
the walls of the citadel, confident that they have sent word to
Jomes.
Orstalor calls a conference and asks for ideas. A frontal
assault across the ditch seems like madness to him — the
rebels would be cut down negotiating the ditch, by slingers
stationed on the garrison walls, and burning oil poured from
the ramparts.
Orstalor is open to any idea and may suggest a few himself:
• Build a wooden bridge to span the gap, running forward
with it, sliding it into place, and then bring a ram across it.
• Fill in the ditch with earth and wood to create a bridge the
rebels can attack over.
• Flyers could enter the citadel by soaring over the towers and
forcing the gates from within, lowering the drawbridge, and
welcoming their comrades across.
• Using magic to breach a section of the citadel walls and
charge across — does anyone have such magic?
The Game Master will need to adjudicate the success or
failure of such efforts. Use an Extended Contest to resolve, with
the prize being the capture the drawbridge and gates, and add
Situational Modifiers as appropriate.
If all else fails, the Red Cow can lay siege to the citadel, hoping
to starve the Lunar soldiers out, and holding Red Cow Fort
against any reinforcements that may come from Wulfsland. The
Lunar camp has enough food to last for several weeks though,
and if Red Cow forces are tied up here, they will be unable to
send men to the siege of Jonstown or the Battle of Dangerford.
Eventually the Lunar troops will sue for peace, asking to be
allowed to return north of the Creek in return for surrendering
the citadel. They will ask for oaths as proof of the Red Cow’s
good intent. If no one accepts then the Lunar forces, when they
begin to starve, and realize that no help is forthcoming, sally

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 8

forth to break out of Red Cow Fort. This is likely to result in a
fight at the bridge, and perhaps within Red Cow Fort itself, as
the troops attempt to cut their way free.

JOMES
Jomes is not dead. He survived the rebel assault on Boldhome
and escaped to Jomesland. Now, he leads the Border Wulf
Peltasts to Red Cow Fort, determined to break the siege or recapture the Fort.
Jomes’ forces have no siege train with artillery and engineers
to batter the fort into submission. Jomes knows that the Red
Cow have enough food in their storage pits to hold out longer
than he can keep his troops encircling the fort. Therefore, he
must rely on a quick assault to carry the day.
Assault on Red Cow Fort

Jomes relies on Moon Winds from the Sardaling bloodline to
make rafts and ferry his troops across the Wandle with their siege
ladders, in an effort to storm the less well protected riverside of
the fort. He hopes to rely on the Sardaling god-talkers of SkyRiver Titan to prevent Orstalor calling on Wandle and Krikans
to drown his troops as they try to make the crossing.
Meanwhile there is betrayal from within Red Cow Fort.
Ustarna Try-Much, sympathetic to the Empire, heals Willandring
the Giant of his hamstringing. Released from his bondage,
Willandring takes the bronze greaves, helmet and immense spear
he has fashioned in secret from their hiding places, dons his
armor and begins to lay waste to everything within Red Cow
Fort. Intent on the life of the chieftain, he tries to kill everything
in his path. If he can kill the chieftain, Willandring attempts to
break down the wall, to allow the Lunar assault to enter. Treat
Willandring the Giant as a Nearly Impossible resistance, but
remember Multiple Opponent Penalties can wear him down.
If Willandring the Giant is beaten Jomes will fail in his assault;
he loses too many troops to drowning, when his priests cannot
overcome Wandle and Krikans, and his assault is blunted. The
survivors cannot raise enough ladders to overwhelm the wall at
any point, and retreat, suffering more losses as they try to cross
the river again. We suggest treating the remainder of the battle as
a Simple Contest for PCs to see if they survive the battle with a
Moderate or Low resistance.
If the PCs cannot defeat Willandring then he succeeds in
killing the chieftain and many of his household (unless they
are PCs, in which case run a contest to see what happens),
and goes on to smash one of the walls allowing the Lunar
assault into the fort. When the Border Wulf Peltasts burst into
Red Cow Fort mayhem ensues. Still the Wandle has reduced
their numbers, but now amidst the panicked civilians of the
Fort they can set about the work of slaughter. The Lunars fire
buildings and cut down unarmed men, women and children.
Treat the battle as a Group Simple Contest using a Very High
resistance. The overall Defeat here depletes the Red Cow’s War
and Wealth Resources; in addition injure the PCs according to
their individual contest results.
If the Imperials win the Lunars do not stay. Jomes decides
he has little hope of holding the fort. They take hostages as they
leave, focusing on rounding up women and children.

Peace Treaty

If Jomes triumphs he uses the Glass Butterfly the Red Cow sent
him to try to negotiate peace. He will keep to Wulfsland if the
Red Cow will keep to their side of the Wandle. If he sacked Red
Cow Fort and took hostages Jomes’ bargaining position will be
stronger, he threatens to kill the hostages if the Red Cow attack
Wulfsland. His orders to kidnap women and children were to
persuade other Cinsina clans to hold back from war.
This is a key moment for the clan and the PCs should be
involved in the decision. The Wolfskinners among the Red
Cow are happy to make peace with Jomes instead of leaving
a dangerous power vacuum but the Free Sartar faction wants
to support their allies amongst the Daughters of Mabodh and
ensure their return to their rightful lands. Do the PCs support
Jomes or the Daughters of Mabodh? If Jomes has hostages, few
within the Cinsina have the will to sacrifice them to oust Jomes
from Wulfsland.
Even if Jomes experiences losses at Red Cow Fort, storming
Stonegate is beyond the might of the Red Cow clan alone —
they will need the support of Queen Ivartha and the tribe.
Queen Ivartha is loath to turn on Jomes, and will only be
persuaded if she believes the Daughters of Mabodh represent a
viable alternative. If the Red Cow lost the battle, and Jomes has
hostages from across the Cinsina, she will prefer to agree terms.

FATE OF THE MOON WINDS
Many of the clan collaborated with the Empire, some
converted to the Red Moon. Ustarna Try-Much and many of
the Sardaling bloodline collaborated with Jomes’ attempt to
retake Red Cow Fort.
The fate of the Moon Winds is up to the players. Hardliners
call for them to be outlawed, and killed if they return to Red
Cow clan lands. Those who suffered at the hands of the Moon
Winds are prominent voices for this faction. Others speak up for
many of the Moon Winds, suggesting not all of those who follow
the Lunar way acted as traitors and urging the clan to remember
that many are kin.
The Women’s Circle is a prominent voice here, calling for
outlawry for those who aided the Empire, but inclusiveness
toward others. “Remember,” they say, “if Starbrow’s Rebellion fails
again, we will be judged by the Empire as we judge their children.”
Still other people say that this is different. The Hero Wars are
upon us: new stars, new planets, the White Bear of prophecy. The
clan will need to be strong to survive and must exile the traitors.

PLAY OF THE GAME
How the fate of the Moon Winds plays out is beyond the scope
of this book. The decisions made have a significant impact on the
setting in years to come. Does the Maboder tribe return? Does
the Red Cow clan split to avoid kinstrife or try to accommodate
its differences? The PCs should be central to these decisions —
this is what the Hero Wars are about, making choices about what
sort of future the Fourth Age of Glorantha will bring. The little
choices made here shape the world to come.
A compromise may be the best solution. Splitting the clan
to allow the Sardaling bloodline and other Moon Winds to

1625

165

resettle on the east bank of the Wandle may prove an acceptable
alternative to kinstrife.
It is possible the PCs will round up the Moon Winds after
storming the citadel with the implication that Ustarna will
not be able to heal Willandring. In that case, have some of the
Women’s Circle plead for Ustarna’s freedom, claiming she has
only ever wanted to heal. If the PCs resist entreaties to free her,
Ustarna will not be able to heal Willandring, and Red Cow Fort
will not be betrayed. Allow the PCs to profit from their foresight
in preventing the betrayal from within.
The events here form one of the main climaxes of the campaign
— the liberation of the Red Cow from the Lunar Occupation.
The players will not want it to be too easy, for that will rob them
of the pleasure of victory, nor so hard the campaign ends with
the whiff of failure.

THE LIBERATION OF
JONSTOWN
BEGINS WITH
Venharl Stormbrow has ridden into Red Cow Fort at the head
of his Storm Rams. He claims to be a general in Kallyr’s Candle
Dancers — a Sartarite regiment few have heard of before.
“It is those rebel bands who fought with Kallyr during the
Shiprise. My Storm Rams, Orstalor’s Mudhens, Thundercape’s
Silent Wind, and Gyffur’s Hidden Gale are amongst them.”
He tells the Red Cow he intends to requisition the citadel in
Red Cow Fort in the name of Kallyr, Prince of Sartar, for use by
the Candle Dancers and announces he is gathering troops, “To
march on Jonstown.”
He turns to the High Priest of the Eleven Lights and says:
“Your Magical Union must now take its place amongst Kallyr’s
war host.”

CAST
Venharl Stormbrow, Ivartha the Skinner

SITUATION
Jonstown remains the only town in Lunar hands, and the key
to ending the Lunar Occupation of Sartar. Kallyr and the Sartar
High Council gather their forces to assault the city. Everyone
remembers Starbrow’s ill-fated rebellion and is concerned about
a counter-attack from Tarsh, so they want to capture Jonstown
as soon as they can.
The Dragonrise has wiped out most of Jonstown’s garrison and
only the First Tarshite Light Foot and Bagnot Foot remain, along
with the Doblain Dogeaters. Survivors from the Arrowstone
Cavalry and Mirinite Swords have reached the city with tales
of the destruction at the New Temple of the Reaching Moon,
but are too few to muster. Two small companies of mercenaries,
the Gray Cloaks and the Dirt Eaters remain as well. Marofdul

166

of Bagnot commands the city, Tovtarim the Prefect having been
lost in the Dragonrise.

CONNECTED EPISODES
The Storm Breaks!, The Battle of Dangerford

ACTS, SCENES AND BEATS
THE LIBERATION OF JONSTOWN
Venharl

Venharl is in overall charge of the Sartarite assault on the city. He
has the loyalty of the Candle Dancers and Kheldon tribal host,
but the tribes of the confederation dispute his authority. Ivartha
the Skinner of the Cinsina, Yrsa Nightbeam of the Torkani,
Ranulf Stand-Tall of the Culbrea, and Amalda Edrufsdottir of
the Malani all claim to be “first” amongst the others.
As ever, the tribal leaders dislike each other as much as they
dislike Venharl.
Venharl’s seizure of the old Lunar citadel at Red Cow Fort
may not be to the liking of the Red Cow. They might feel that
having ousted one squatter from their clan center, they do not
want another. Venharl is determined: he talks about the oaths
the Cinsina made to the Royal House of Sartar generations ago
to support the kingdom. “Kallyr is Prince of Sartar now, and if
she says the Royal House need to station soldiers in Red Cow
Fort, then you have given word that you will support her.”
If the PCs broke their oath to the House of Sartar in
Manhunt or Kill Telmori, Venharl adds: “Have not the Red Cow
broken their oaths to the Royal House before? Would you risk
your clan’s doom by doing so again? Billeting these soldiers here
should remind you of your oaths.”
People are unhappy about breaking their oaths again by
refusing Venharl, saying: “Has the clan not suffered enough?”
He reminds the Eleven Lights that they owe fealty to Kallyr,
probably including the chieftain, if a PC became chieftain.
If the Red Cow complains that he is behaving like a tyrant,
Venharl listens — the Orlanthi hate tyrants. In that case, Venharl
will negotiate with the Red Cow for compensation for the loss of
the citadel. The Red Cow could use this compensation to bolster
any of their clan Resources.
Venharl cannot wait to starve the Empire out of Jonstown,
needing to muster the army against a counter-attack, so he needs
to assault the city. At this point his newly formed Sartarite army
has no siege train to construct siege towers. Attempts by flyers to
enter Jonstown are beaten back.
Venharl decides to use magic to aid his assault. Entarios the
Supporter and the Greenstone Temple come to aid him! The
priestesses set up altars, half a mile from the walls of Jonstown,
and sacrifice boars and sows to Ernalda for her aid.
Venharl has the army form up in ranks, as though they were
about to assault the city.
The priestesses begin singing a hymn together. As they sing
the ground in front of them begins to froth and churn. Everyone
feels the ground begin to tremble. The frothing stills for a
moment, and then something burrows through the earth, raising

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 8

Along the assault ramp, rebel forces pour into the Old City of Jonstown
the ground behind it, heading straight for the walls of Jonstown.
As the burrowing inches its way forward it rises, creating a ramp,
broad enough for a dozen men, slowly rising to meet the walls
of Jonstown.
The Assault

The PCs form up on the siege ramp. Venharl puts skirmishers
at the front, to exchange missile fire with the defenders on the
wall as the ramp creeps its way closer to High Hill. Behind them,
he puts his heavy infantry, to storm up the ladders and take the
battlements, clearing the path for the medium infantry behind
to push into the city.
Venharl gives the order for the army to advance. Carrying
ladders and rams they follow the path of the ramp, just behind
its expanding scarp face. Eventually the great ramp meets the
walls of the Old City of Jonstown and stops, just below the
battlements.
With a blast of trumpets, the assault of Jonstown begins.
The Empire rains sling stones, javelins, and boiling oil down
on the attackers as they approach the ramparts; then they fight
hand-to-hand to keep the besiegers from the walls. The Sartarites’
ramp allows them to breach the walls around High Hill and take
the Old City. They fall on the Lunar soldiers defending the old
town and the Seven Mothers temple, slaying and burning.
When the invaders take a section of the wall and warriors
begin to pour in, the defenders rout and run for the New City. A

few attempt to hold the Grizzly Gate but the fearful groaning of
the stones unmans them, and they join the frantic retreat across
the bridge. Some of the Imperial troops make an orderly retreat
down Sartar’s Seat into the New City and the Lunar garrison.
Once the Sartarites hold the Old City and seize both ends of
the bridge, the garrison’s fate is sealed. Expecting no quarter, and
giving none, the Lunar troops fall back to the garrison street-bystreet. The Lunar commanders, instilling their men with a fear of
what will happen to them at the hands of the vengeful Sartarites,
mount a defense of the streets leading away from Sartar’s Seat.
They barricade streets with overturned wagons and furniture,
position slingers on rooftops and hurl javelins and rocks. They
make the rebels pay in blood for every inch of ground.
Eventually the Sartarite warbands push the Imperial troops
back to their garrison. The stronghold shuts its doors tight
and the Lunars prepare to make their last stand. The Sartarites
dismantle the barricades for firewood and pile wood up against
the wooden palisade and set fire to it, intending to show no
mercy to their former overlords.
They send fire arrows and flaming brands over the walls, until
the roofs of the barracks are alight. As walls and gates crumble
some of the trapped troops try to flee and are cut down.
Look at the War section for advice on how to run a battle.
Treat this as an Extended Contest as the PCs fight their way into
Jonstown against determined resistance from troops who know
they will all be massacred anyway if they try to surrender. This

1625

167

should have a Very High resistance. Each round may represent
a new phase on the conduct of the battle: across the ramp, onto
the walls, street fighting, and the burning of the garrison. Use the
Climatic Consequence table for the results of this fight — some
of the PCs may die in the liberation of Jonstown.
The Sack of Jonstown

With the garrison destroyed, many of the rebels decide to sack
Jonstown. Their fury first turns on the Lunar quarter, where
they break into buildings, drag their inhabitants into the street
and slaughter them, loot the contents and then fire them. A
few Imperial citizens seek shelter in Tovtarim’s theater but are
ruthlessly hunted down and slain.
Then the pillaging and looting begins to spread, as does the
arson of houses and shops. A haze of smoke lies over Jonstown.
The air fills with the sound of shrieks and screams, and the
horrible sweet stench of burning bodies.
A delegation approaches the PCs. They are desperate to find
who is in charge and ask them to help stop the sack. There are
guild merchants pleading for their shops and livelihoods, sages
terrified the fire will spread and consume priceless documents,
and priestesses of Chalana Arroy, eager to stop the killing.
The PCs have a chance to intervene and bring to an end the
sack of Jonstown. The PCs might take action themselves to halt
those around them from their riotous conduct; or they might
seek Venharl or one of the other leaders to restore order; or even
find the Jonstown authorities and help them take control of their
city again.
If the PCs succeed, the city authorities will remember
their actions with gratitude. If they fail, much of Jonstown is
pillaged before order can be restored, damaging the Jonstown
Confederation’s economy for years to come.

PLAY OF THE GAME
The two key themes of this episode are the further rolling back of
the Lunar Occupation and the emergence of a new order in Sartar.
The latter theme paves the way for future episodes beyond
the end of this campaign. Sartar will have been liberated, but
the shape of the liberated kingdom may not be what everyone
expects. This is just the first of the transformations of the Sartarite
state from a loose federation to something more organized, more
controlled.
Venharl Stormbrow is a more ambivalent figure than
Orstalor Spearlord. Where Orstalor is the Red Cow’s friend
and confidante during the Occupation, Venharl is a Sartarite
nationalist who deems the kingdom more important than any
clan or tribe within it.
Other voices will emerge in the newly liberated Sartar too,
voices for whom even Sartar is too small a stage, and for whom
the bringing down of the Red Moon is more important than
anything else. The Red Cow may not like their new superiors any
more than they liked the old.
However, the opportunity exists for the PCs to gain new
revelations. Fighting alongside those from different clans and
tribes, they may learn to overcome prejudices and work for a
higher goal — that of Sartar or bringing down the Red Moon.

168

THE BATTLE OF
DANGERFORD
BEGIN WITH
Kallyr Starbrow calls the PCs to Red Cow Fort. The Fort buzzes
with visitors. There are horses everywhere; their riders sit around
campfires sharpening their swords and lances or practicing with
swords and shields.
There are warriors here from all across Sartar. Men and
women from the militias of the Swenstown and Wilmskirk
Confederations dig latrines and stake out campgrounds.
People mill about the entrance to the Citadel and you have
to push and shove to get inside. Rumors fly thick and fast: “The
King of Tarsh has sent General Fazzur Wideread south,” and “the
army is big, some say ten thousand men.”
“The last time we pushed the Empire out of Sartar, Fazzur’s
relief column crossed at Dangerford. I believe he will try to cross
there again,” says Kallyr, drawing a map in the ground with a
stick. “However, Fazzur is a wily old dog and I cannot commit
these regiments until I am certain where we must face them. If we
control Dangerford Fort, a small force might be able to delay any
Lunar scouts from crossing, allowing the army time to muster.
“If the reports of his numbers are true, he outnumbers us,” she
tells them. “We have to defend at the crossing of the Creek where
their numbers cannot be used to outflank and surround us.” Kallyr
draws in the dirt as she speaks, starting with two lines for the Creek
and then units on either side. When she discusses the envelopment,
she rubs her stick over the Sartarite side, obliterating it.
Kallyr looks tired, with dark circles under her eyes; it is
obvious she has not slept in days. A healer fusses around her,
trying to get her to drink herbal tea. “The inevitable gut rot of an
army on the march,” says Kallyr as she drains the foul smelling
brew. “Ah, my old friends, we have come so far, and are so very
close now. We can rest soon.”
Rumor has it that she has not lit the Flame of Sartar.
“My scouts and spies tell me that the Empire has abandoned
Dangerford,” Kallyr tells them. “I need the Eleven Lights to
rouse the Dolutha and hold Dangerford Fort.”

CAST
Kallyr Starbrow, Ivar Quickstep, The Dolutha Ring, Venharl
Stormbrow

SITUATION
A Tarshite army of five thousand men, commanded by Fazzur
Wideread, begins marching on Godsday (Full Half Moon)
of Harmony Week of Fire Season from Alda-Chur, reaching
Herongreen Fort on Waterday (Dying Moon) of Death Week.
They remain camped there over the Black Moon on Clayday.
The Dinacoli welcome the Tarshites — celebrating their
arrival as liberators from Kallyr Starbrow and her Sartarite rebels.
Orlanthi spies set out to take word to Sartarite commanders.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 8

On Windsday (Crescent Come Moon) of
Death Week, the Tarshite force at Herongreen Fort
marches south to try to cross at Dangerford. Kallyr
begins marching towards Dangerford from Red
Cow Fort, now knowing the Tarshite army will try
to cross there.

fought with her at the raising of the Sky Ship, and
at Boldhome and Jonstown — the Candle Dancers,
as well as the Kheldon tribal host. These units have
all suffered losses in the battles to liberate Sartar’s
forts and cities and are at half-strength.
Sartar City Militia

Lunar Forces at the Battle of Dangerford

Commanded by Fazzur Wideread, the general
who crushed Starbrow’s Rebellion in 1613, the
following regiments are arrayed against the rebels
at Dangerford:
Provincial Army

Veterans Cavalry: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
2nd Furthest Cavalry: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
3rd Furthest Cavalry: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
Bagnot Foot: 1000 Heavy Infantry.
Dunstop Foot: 1000 Heavy Infantry.
1st Furthest Foot: 1000 Heavy Infantry.
2nd Furthest Foot: 1000 Heavy Infantry.
Goldedge Foot: 1000 Heavy Infantry.
Talfort Foot: 1000 Heavy Infantry.
Cavalry Corps

Antelope Lancers: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
Bell Temple: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
Char-un: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
Whipstock: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
Arrowstone: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
Goldwave: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
Uplands: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
Queen’s Horse: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
Starkin: 500 Light Cavalry.
Moon Arrow: 500 Light Cavalry.

1st Mounted Jonstown Confederation: 500 Heavy
Cavalry.
2nd Mounted Jonstown Confederation: 500
Heavy Cavalry.
1st Mounted Swenstown Confederation: 500
Heavy Cavalry.
1st Mounted Wilmskirk Confederation: 500
Heavy Cavalry.
1st Mounted Boldhome: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
2nd Mounted Boldhome: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
1st Jonstown Foot: 1000 Light Infantry.
2nd Jonstown Foot: 1000 Light Infantry.
1st Swenstown Foot: 1000 Light Infantry.
1st Wilmskirk Foot: 1000 Light Infantry.
1st Boldhome Foot: 1000 Light Infantry.
2nd Boldhome Foot: 1000 Light Infantry.
1st Duck Point: 250 Light Infantry (Ducks).
2nd Duck Point: 250 Light Infantry (Ducks).
3rd Duck Point: 250 Light Infantry (Ducks).
Rebel Army

Antlercase: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
Headhunters: 500 Heavy Cavalry.
Candle Dancers: 500 Light Infantry.
Paper Strength: 10,500 — no regiments are at
full strength.
Though the Sartarites are outnumbered they
will take the day through sheer inspiration and
force General Fazzur to retreat. Sartar is free!

Paper Strength: 12,500 — however no regiments
are at full strength, and the march south in the
freezing conditions has rendered many of Fazzur’s
troops incapacitated through cold related injuries.

CONNECTED EPISODES

Rebel Forces at the Battle of Dangerford

The Storm Breaks!, The Battle of Dangerford

The Swenstown, Jonstown, and Wilmskirk
Confederations have raised their tribal militias and
sent them north to aid Kallyr. Surprising everyone,
the Ducks have sent help too! After the years of the
Occupation the tribal militias are ill equipped and
poorly organized, but determined to keep their
freedom. These units are at a third to half of their
paper strength, and the Heavy units field as Light
in many cases due to a lack of equipment.
The Malani and Colymar have not sent their
forces, and their militias instead watch the crossing
at Two Sisters, fearing an attack on Runegate.
The Culbrea host, the Headhunters, have given
Kallyr their loyalty, as has the Kheldon host, the
Antlercase. She also commands the rebels who

FAZZUR IN
WINTER
This episode takes
place in Dark Season.
Generals have mustered
their armies to fight,
despite the risks of
losing their soldiers
to exposure, because
the control of Dragon
Pass is at stake. This
is unheard of. Fazzur
has taken the bold
decision to launch a
winter attack in order
to defeat the Sartarites
before they can
organize. The Creek is
high, and the water icy
cold — those who fall
in risk hypothermia
and death. Ice clings
to both shores. Snow
and a hard white frost
covers the ground. The
days are bright but
short, and the nights
are bitterly cold.

ACTS, SCENES AND BEATS
DANGERFORD

Let the players come up with a suitable plan to
seize control of Dangerford Fort. The option we
consider here is rebellion and insurrection.

Rebellion

The Red Cow party might ask a number of NPCs
to help them persuade the Dolutha to rise up. They
may already have come across the Dolutha exiles
in Red Cow Fort: Twisted Morganeth, Inganna
Koscheisdottir, Korolfin Longeye, Morgan SwordTongue, and Orlmakt Nine-Winds. These exiles

1625

169

have long lobbied the Red Cow for help in overthrowing Ivar
Quickstep — now could be their time to act.
The exiles are all outlaws and cannot brazenly walk into
Dolutha clan lands — any member of the Dolutha might kill
them on sight. However, they can enter the clan lands in secret
and rouse those Dolutha loyal to Orlanth and Sartar to rise up
against the occupiers.
If the PCs decide to help in rousing the Dolutha, they may
know enough about Ivar’s betrayal of Good Arnal to sway his
people against him (a +6 Situational Modifier).
Even if the people are ready to revolt, someone has to confront
Ivar. No one within the clan wants to worsen the Dolutha’s time
by having kinstrife on their hands. And so the exiles ask the PCs
to remove Ivar from office.
Insurrection

Korolfin gives the PCs advice, “Ivar is not yet lost, and the
steadfast loyal thane still smolders within him. Make him see he
is being deceived by the Teller of Lies, then the dawn may come
for the Dolutha after their Long Night.”
If the PCs travel to Dangerford Fort as Red Cow, Cinsina,
or House of Sartar emissaries, the Sworn Knives will usher
them into Ivar’s hall — but first demand their weapons. Refusal
means the Sworn Knives will bar admission. Concealing
weapons is a contest.
Ivar sits huddled in his furs. Word of the Dragonrise has
reached him, and with it he sees he has lost his wager that
backing the Empire was the easy path to Dolutha advancement.
Burning with injured pride at this reversal of fortune, when
the PCs’ delegation arrives, Ivar tells them that the Dolutha will
not join Starbrow but will join with King Petrad of the Dinacoli
in welcoming the “Tarshite army of salvation.”
If the PCs try to get Ivar to see that he has been deceived
(by Elmal’s foe the Teller of Lies) run it as a Group Simple
Contest. Allow each player an attempt to persuade Ivar to see
how he has been corrupted by honeyed-words whispered in
his ear. The resistance is Very High, but Multiple Opponent
Penalties apply.
If Ivar realizes he has been deceived, he rises to his feet,
shrugging off the furs he wears year-round. “I would not be loyal
to Orlanth if I believed him so easily defeated,” he says, lifting his
shield from the wall and smashing it into the surprised Hastur’s
face and then uses its sharp rim to cut his throat. The Sworn
Knives reach for their weapons; they will try to kill the PCs and
Ivar, and seize control of Dangerford.
If the PCs cannot persuade Ivar to see the error of his ways,
he orders the Sworn Knives to kill them: “For they have come
to my hall with the desire to overthrow me.” Hastur orders his
men to “form a line” and has his soldiers advance on the PCs to
cut them down.
Either way this is likely to end in a fight in Ivar’s hall in
Dangerford Fort as the PCs battle the Sworn Knives. If Ivar has
not seen the error of his ways, he should duel with one of the PCs.
If there are too many Sworn Knives for the PCs to defeat, the
Game Master should have rebellious Dolutha clan folk storm the
fort to help them kill the remaining mercenaries.

170

Liberating Dangerford

If the PCs manage to raise rebellion, then outside, in the streets
of Dangerford, a battle rages between the garrison and the
Dolutha outlaws. Eventually the garrison breaks and flees across
the Creek, heading into Dinacoli territory.
The Dolutha have been liberated! There will be a moment
of celebration, but gradually the approach of the Tarshite army
brings everyone to their senses.
Twisted Morganeth and Korolfin take charge of the Dolutha.
They try to evacuate those unable to fight from Dangerford.
Under Twisted Morganeth’s leadership, the refugees flee to Red
Cow Fort, cementing ties between the two clans, forged in exile.
Meanwhile Korolfin raises what men he has, and joins them to
the Eleven Lights bodyguard.
“This is our home,” Korolfin tells the PCs, “and our blood
and treasure should be spent defending it against an Empire that
has brought us so much pain.”
The Battle of Dangerford Fort

Scouts from the Moon Arrow cavalry reach Dangerford before the
main body of either army. General Fazzur Wideread gives these
troops orders to hold the crossing until the main army arrives.
The expeditionary force consists of troops from the Moon
Arrow, under the command of Belkar Arimsson. There are over
250 cavalrymen in Belkar’s command. Belkar and his men will
try to seize control of the fort first, then the town. The fort is
strategically important because any army approaching the ford
must pass by the fort, and whilst it remains occupied, anyone
holding the fort can rain down slingshot and arrows on everyone
trying to cross or sally forth to attack them.
Find out the PCs’ plan. The Game Master can use Korolfin,
Morgan and Orlmakt to offer advice and prompt. Patrols and
sentries will give the rebels warning of the approach of the
Empire; without it Belkar’s men may surprise them. Dangerford
Fort is easily defended but Dangerford Village has no walls along
the banks of the Creek, relying on the river itself as defense. This
means there are no ramparts for anyone holding the crossing to
hide behind, except at Dangerford Fort. Improvising barricades
from carts, fences from households in the village, and rubble
will give the defenders some protection against missile fire.
Communication between the Fort and Village could use smoke,
flags, trumpets or signal mirrors, but Orlanthi have magical
options under the Air Rune such as to Send or Hear Words
on Wind and the PCs will doubtless come up with more. The
players might decide to lay traps, such as caltrops in the river or
pits on Isle Dangerous. Be conscious that they only have limited
resources and limited time; where do they get the caltrops, how
many pit traps can they organize?
The aid of the Dolutha boosts the Eleven Lights War Resource
by a Situational Modifier of +6. Use a War Resource of 12W for
the Moon Arrow cavalry.
Refer to the template episode War on how to run a battle. The
PCs leader should contend with Belkar to determine the overall
outcome of each battle, with the group playing out contests for
their part in key moments of the battle.
Without a siege train, Belkar has little desire to storm
Dangerford Fort, but he has orders from General Fazzur that he

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 8

does not want to disobey. With no time to construct a battering
ram or build a siege ramp, and with no artillery to attack the
walls, Belkar has to rely on ropes and crude grappling hooks to
climb the walls. Aware that an attack by day would be suicide,
Belkar tries a night attack on Clayday, when there is no moon to
reveal his assault. His men’s faces blackened, Belkar tries to catch
the defenders unaware and seize the fort.
If Belkar’s raid fails then his forces decide to ignore Dangerford
Fort and try to take control of the crossing anyway, by seizing the
crossing points and Isle Dangerous. How difficult this is depends
on the improvised defenses the PCs have put in place on the
Village side of the Crossing.
If the PCs lose control of the fort or crossing, they may want
to counter-attack to retake it themselves.
This may result in a to-and-fro struggle. After each exchange
use the Resource Depletion table to reduce the War Resource
of the combatants. Apply any penalties to leadership abilities as
well, as the troops’ confidence in a losing commander falls.
Belkar is not stupid and does not waste his men fruitlessly,
but he also knows his mission carries with it great possibilities
for advancement for the man who held Dangerford. If his War
Resource falls to 12, then he sounds the retreat, ceding the rebels
the crossing.

The Dolutha are not suicidal either. If the Eleven Lights War
Resource falls to 12, then the Dolutha abandon their weapons
and flee — heading for the safety of Red Cow Fort.
If the battle for control of the crossing continues, relief
only comes on the morning of Clayday when Kallyr’s war host
arrives. With the Imperial Army up the road, there is little time
for celebration.

THE FREEDOM BATTLE
The Battle takes place on Windsday of Death Week. Ten
thousand troops drawn from the Provincial Army under General
Fazzur Wideread try to take the river crossing at Dangerford.
The rebels call it the Freedom Battle.
Kallyr positions the bulk of her forces along the southern
bank of the Creek in Dangerford Village, stationing her infantry
to hold the banks, with her cavalry on their flanks. The walls of
the village protect them to the east, west, and south, and she puts
some of her greener troops on those walls — to screen for raiders
and to stay out of trouble. She sends the Candle Dancers along
with the Eleven Lights, the PCs, to hold Dangerford Fort. She
stations the Wilmskirk Foot and the Ducks on Isle Dangerous.
In response, Fazzur draws up north of the crossing, with his
infantry in the center and his cavalry on his wings.

Maps showing the progress of the Freedom Battle: #1 Battle Begins

1625

171

Maps showing the progress of the Freedom Battle: #2 Battle for Isle Dangerous
See the War section from Common Activities for advice on
how to run a battle.
The outcome of this battle is predetermined — a Sartarite win
drives the Empire out of Sartar — so frame contests around the
PCs’ quest for personal glory (or cowardice) on the battlefield.
We provide scenes below for various points in the battle.
The Eleven Lights

“This is your hour,” Kallyr tells the PCs, indicating the position
of Orlanth’s Ring in the zenith of the sky at night. “The Eleven
Lights can win this day. Orlanth’s Ring is with Pole Star.”
She orders her household to help the PCs set up their altars
on the upper level of the tower in Dangerford Fort. (If the PCs
failed to hold Dangerford Fort, Kallyr uses the guardhouse over
the East Gate of Dangerford Village for all three altars.)
“My Candle Dancers will fight alongside you and hold
Dangerford Fort, I believe you have fought together before” she
says. The leaders of her regiment — Orstalor Spearlord, Venharl
Stormbrow, and Orngerin Thundercape — join the PCs in
Dangerford Fort along with their warbands. They defer to the
Chief Bodyguard of the Eleven Lights, but intend to station men
on the walls and in the towers.

172

“When the time comes,” Kallyr says, “let your Starfire rain
down upon the Lunar forces. Turn the tide when it seems we
might fail.”
Emphasize to the PCs that their ritual takes time, and it
won’t be possible to use Starfire during the opening scenes of the
battle. Once empowered the High Priest can summon Starfire
whenever they need — but performing the ritual a second time
would take longer than this battle might last, so such a usage
ought to be decisive.
The Coming Storm

Kallyr’s housecarls raise her on a shield, supported on their
shoulders, so that everyone can see her as she addresses her
troops.
“A dozen years ago I led you in throwing the Empire out of
our land. Some of you here with me today, were with me then.
We failed then, we submitted to Fazzur’s yoke, and Hofstaring
fell. We will not fail again,” Kallyr begins falteringly at first, but
her voice gathers more strength, the star jewel glowing brightly
upon her forehead.
“We endured. They took our lands, made slaves of us, and
even tried to fetter the Wind. But we did not falter in our

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 8

faith that we would be free again. We have lost our kin, cattle
and wealth to the Empire. Today is the day you all take blood
vengeance for those wrongs.
“Look to the man to your left and right. You are free men.
We forced the Empire out of Sartar. No Lunar soldier hides in
our cities and forts now. No tax collector beggars our kin. We
are free.
“Today you defend that freedom against the coming storm.
“Don’t fight for me. Fight for yourselves, fight for the man to
your left and right, fight for your kin at home. This is your battle
for your freedom. This is the Freedom Battle.
“General Fazzur comes to take your freedom. What do you
say to him?”
The crowd softly raises their voices, “No…”
“General Fazzur cannot hear you! What do you say to him?”
asks Kallyr again.
“No! No! No! No!” replies the shout from thousands of
throats, echoing around Dangerford. Spears and swords rattle
against shields, building to a crescendo. “No! No! No!”
“No!” becomes the cry at the Freedom Battle.
Battle Begins

The battle begins with Kallyr sending the Headhunters and
Antlercase north of the Creek to harass the Lunar camp and
retreat, so as to lure the Empire into the killing ground of the
ford. They ride up to the Lunar lines and throw javelins at them.
The inexperienced 2nd and 3rd Furthest cavalry break from the
Lunar lines to give pursuit. As they chase the rebels into the
water and across the ford they run straight into the Wilmskirk
Foot and Ducks who make short work of the cavalry in the
slippery shallows around the island.
A Thunder Shout goes up from the Sartarite lines.
Fazzur chooses not to wait for the rebels to get more organized
and marches his Foot regiments down to Dangerford Fort and
the crossing. He uses his cavalry to screen his approach.

The Chief Bodyguard of the Eleven Lights is in command of
the defense and should succeed in a contest to hold Dangerford
Fort. On a success the rebels hold the Fort, on a failure they are
overrun and must flee — the Eleven Lights magical ritual will be
ruined in this case.
The results of the Chief Bodyguard’s contest form a Plot
Augment to the PCs when they resolve contests for their
individual parts in the battle.
Battle for Isle Dangerous

Fazzur resolves to take Isle Dangerous. He directs his cavalry, the
Antelope Lancers, the Bell Temple, and Char-un to seize control
of the northern part of the ford and the island. The Ducks and
the Wilmskirk Foot fight bravely but the cavalry is relentless.
After the shield wall bristling with spears beats off the
Antelope Lancers, the Thunder Shout from the rebels is fullthroated. By the time they repel the Bell Temple assault so many
lie dead the shout is ragged and the Creek flows red with blood.
Stabbing long spears and cutting swords all exact their grim toll.
The rebel ranks are fraying, barely enough shields overlapping in
the center, the flanks of the shield wall in tatters.
Then the Char-un smash through the remaining defenders,
their two-handed kontos lances twice as long as a man is tall,
propelled by the weight of their warhorses. The defenders stagger
and collapse backwards, their line buckling and breaking; those
still standing now in full rout, scrambling desperately to the
southern bank, the pursuing cavalry at their backs. The ducks
save some of the men and women of Wilmskirk from drowning
or being cut down as they flee. The blood-spattered survivors
are few, pulled from the freezing water by their comrades in
Dangerford Village.
The Char-un cavalry now holds Isle Dangerous. Cries go up
to take it back, but Kallyr holds her line.
The Eleven Lights magic is still not ready.
The Big Push

Battle for Dangerford Fort

Fazzur has decided he needs to take Dangerford Fort. He has
brought scaling ladders, grappling hooks, and siege artillery such
as ballistae and arbalests. Whilst his cavalry take control of the
northern bank, the 1st Furthest Foot seeks to storm the fort.
The Tarshite assault on Dangerford Fort is bloody, but the
magicians need to focus on their ritual and can do little to help.
The Candle Dancers, and the Eleven Lights bodyguard must
hold the walls, weathering Fazzur’s attempts to sweep the walls
with artillery before grappling hooks and scaling ladders come
over the battlements. Other troops try to smash the gates with
a huge ram, comrades shielding those carrying the ram from
missile fire from the fort with shields over their heads.
The battle on the walls is brutal and gory; a scene of ferocious
sword and axe work and flaring combative magics. Some parts
are lost for minutes at a time until one of the leaders, Orstalor,
Venharl, or Orngerin organizes a counter-attack to clear the
section of parapet of attackers. At one point some of the Furthest
Foot might break through and make it into the courtyard and
then to the tower. The Eleven Lights bodyguard must certainly
hold off the assault!

Fazzur dispatches the Bagnot Foot to make a second attempt at
Dangerford Fort. At the same time he tries to push across to the
southern bank.
The second assault on Dangerford Fort is much like the first,
so treat this one as a Costly Success as the defenders work to
keep the Eleven Lights ritual intact. If the PCs suffer Defeats,
it may be that the Bagnot Foot has taken the walls and gates of
Dangerford Fort and that the survivors of the Candle Dancers
hole up in the tower, trying to keep the defenders out long
enough to allow the ritual to be completed.
Fazzur begins the assault on the southern bank by sending
more of his cavalry across the water from Isle Dangerous.
Waves of cavalry break on the Sartarite ranks. The ford becomes
blocked with the bodies from both sides, people, and horses. The
cries of the wounded and dying fill the air, the clash of bronze
on bronze, and horses screaming in their death throes. The
Goldwave, Starkin, and Queen’s Horse cavalry regiments break
on the Sartarite line, but then the Arrowstone push across the
bank and into Dangerford Village.
The fighting is fierce, but Fazzur begins sending his infantry
across the Creek behind the cavalry to fight in the press. The

1625

173

infantry come in waves, but they make their toehold on the
southern bank a solid beachhead and begin grinding their way
inexorably through the Sartarite ranks. The superior numbers of
the Tarshites, who outnumber the Sartarites, begins to tell.
Stemming the Tide

If the PCs have kept their Eleven Lights ceremony going for all
this time, they can use their Starfire ritual to rain down hell upon
the Lunar ranks and turn the tide of battle:
Meteoric lights arc down through the Middle Air leaving
silvery trails. Each bursts into a multitude of fragments
accompanied moments later by the thunder of detonations,
throwing a dance of white light and shadow across the field
of battle. The Tarshites barely have time to look up in wonder
— and terror — before the Starfire falls amongst them. The
conflagration devours men and horses. Splattered by the molten
armor and accoutrements of dead comrades, the survivors lose
all military cohesion, converted into a disorganized rabble.
Their regimental standards ignite, spirits howling in agonizing
torment. Confined together, confronted by horror, every
soldier fights for their own survival seeking any means of escape
shoving, stabbing, and screaming in total rout.
Only the bodyguard surrounding General Fazzur stands firm,
shields locked together, protected from the incineration by the
strength of his personal banner.
Across the river the scene of ruin momentarily stuns the rebels.
Rout

As the Lunar Army disintegrates, the rebels charge across the
ford yelling war cries to fall on their foe and the slaying begins.
General Fazzur tries to stem the rout and regroup the
survivors of the onslaught to a steady retreat; despite his efforts
the vengeful Sartarites cut many down as they flee. The few
remnants of the once proud host fall back to Alda-Chur where
they take refuge.
A huge shout goes up from the Sartarite ranks, “I fought,
We won!”

PLAY OF THE GAME
This scenario covers both the liberation of the Dolutha as well as
the Freedom Battle.
With the fall of Ivar Quickstep, the Cinsina are entirely freed
from leadership by Lunar sympathizers and are fully part of a
free Sartar.
One tricky question in the liberation of the Dolutha is
kinstrife. There are more converts in the Dolutha than the Red
Cow, and more chance the Dolutha will end up fighting each
other. Whilst for the outlaws, this is of no concern — legally
they are no longer Dolutha — for those members of the clan that
rise up this is kinstrife. Killing Sworn Knives and Lunar soldiers
is permissible, but fighting kin brings the ruin of kinstrife.
The liberation of the Dolutha may well end in tragedy with
kinstrife threatening to break the clan. The Dolutha will need
PCs to atone for the crime, but they already have a history of
kinstrife to contend with.

174

The Dolutha may be doomed to break apart in the early days
of the Hero Wars, the tragedy of their kinstrife forever blighting
the clan in the eyes of the gods, who remove their protection from
the clan. It is likely the clan stumbles from tragedy to tragedy
until it meets its fate. The ‘tragedy of the Dolutha’ is outside the
scope of this book, but may be an interesting direction for future
episodes of the Game Master’s own creation.
The Freedom Battle is the climax of the campaign. With it,
Sartar can breathe free again. The episode is set up so that the
PCs can act in a decisive moment in that battle.
Take some time before battle begins for role-play in
Dangerford Fort with the Candle Dancers. The PCs will have
met many of these rebels during the campaign — this is the
chance for the PCs to be together with these NPCs at the climax
of the campaign. Feel free to add other personalities from the
campaign your PCs would appreciate having together at these
final climatic moments.
We assume the PCs win the battle for Dangerford Fort. If
they lost their part, the remainder of the battle is uncertain.
Kallyr will still carry the day, but the PCs won’t be the heroes of
the clash of arms. If this might prove too unsatisfying you can
make the outcome of the first wave assault on Dangerford Fort
a victory and the PCs’ part in it a Costly Success. We treat the
second assault as a Costly Success anyway.
You may want to remind the player of the Pyrrhic Victory
rules. If a player was so-minded the Chief Bodyguard’s defense
of Dangerford Fort might be a heroic death for them and many
of the troops under their command. If that happens, don’t run
Fazzur’s second assault as it would demean the sacrifice made
in the first battle. The Bagnot Foot all die in the hell that is
Dangerford Fort at that point, and cannot attack.
If the PCs cannot summon their Starfire, Kallyr’s charismatic
and inspired leadership is what stems the tide. Seemingly
everywhere at once she rallies the Sartarite forces again and
again until they push the Tarshite army back into the water.
The Sartarites fight with a desperation born of the years of the
Occupation and their attacks become frenzied, berserker assaults
on the enemy. Again, remind any players about the Pyrrhic
Victory rules at this point. Pressed back upon their own reserves
the Tarshites begin fighting through their own rear lines to
escape the furious Sartarite assault. They break and run.
In this outcome although the battle is still won, the cost to
the Sartarites is far greater, with 50% of their troops dead to
some 30% of the Tarshite forces. If the Eleven Lights strike, this
situation is reversed, Sartarite casualties are around 30% but the
Tarshites suffer 50% casualties.
With the First Battle of Dangerford, a success for the newly
liberated kingdom, the Lunar Occupation has ended. For the
first time in a generation, Sartarites are free.
The Hero Wars hold many trials for the new nation yet, but
these are beyond the scope of this book. If you have played
through from the beginning, the liberation of the Red Cow clan
may be an ideal place to stop, or at least pause for breath before
picking up your story. The newly freed kingdom has many
threats and challenges before it, but perhaps the players should
enjoy this victory first.

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — CHAPTER 8

• Chapter 9 •

EPILOGUE
FREE AT LAST?
THE HERO WARS HAVE ONLY
JUST BEGUN
The liberation of the Kingdom of Sartar may be a good point to
pause the campaign — this is certainly a high note and skalds
will sing of those who took part in these events for many years
to come.
The immediate question for each clan after liberation is
the fate of their collaborators, the Moon Winds. Most can be
outlawed for turning their backs on Orlanth and Ernalda, and
once exiled be killed by those seeking vengeance. Everyone hears
of other clans who drive out and even slay their collaborators;
the Moon Winds become jittery and some pack their bags to
head north to Alda-Chur. Yet for many, these ‘collaborators’ are
friends and kin, and in some clans, including the Red Cow, not
everyone finds it easy to take revenge on them.
The fate of Wulfsland may be undecided. The Sartarite High
Command wants to drive Jomes out of Sartar, seeing him as a
dangerous fifth column, but with Kostajor Wolf-Champion and
his sons dead, many believe the Telmori now have few if any ties
to the kingdom, and the presence of Jomes in Wulfsland could
keep them in check a little longer. Queen Kallyr claims to have the

loyalty of the Telmori, but this does not placate the Cinsina, who
still do not trust her. In the meantime, the Daughters of Mabodh
call for the freeing of their people. The struggle for Wulfsland will
occupy much of the Jonstown Confederation in 1626.
Subsequent events of the Hero Wars lie beyond the scope of
this book.
In 1626, Tarsh will try to overcome Sartar again, hoping to
strike before the new kingdom can be put in order. Queen Kallyr
and Queen Leika Orlkensorsdotter (of the Colymar) will defeat
the Tarshite army at the Battle of the Queens, but at great cost.
In 1627, Argrath returns to the Eleven Lights, seeking their
help in reclaiming the Far Place of northern Sartar from the rule
of the Lunar Empire.
In addition, there are two later events of the Hero Wars that
stem from material in this campaign.
The first is that Argrath brings aurochs back to Dragon
Pass to fulfill an ancient prophecy. He does this by successfully
completing The Stealing of the Giant’s Cows and the three quests
of The Testing of Red Cow Fort (not included in this book). The
Cinsina cooperate with Argrath on these quests.
The second is that Argrath repays Cinsina help in returning
aurochs to Dragon Pass by driving the Telmori from the Wolf
Hills. The human victors of Argrath’s battles against the wolfmen
become known as the Wolfskins, for they wear the pelts of their
victims, and become a very highly honored band of warriors
wherever they are recognized.

Epilogue

175

• INDEX •
1618 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3, 4, 6, 7, 37, 46, 97, 99
1619 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3, 8, 54, 56, 65, 86
1620 .  .  .  .  . 3, 8, 54, 76, 83, 92, 94, 99, 101, 144, 159
1621-1622 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3, 8, 99
1623 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3, 6, 8, 9, 105, 144, 145, 155
1624 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 145, 155, 156
1625 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 3, 4, 7, 9, 162, 163

A

Abenna the True.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 134
Act 7, 9, 10, 11, 13, 16, 18, 20, 23, 28, 29,
39, 40, 47, 49, 50, 51, 54, 78, 85, 89, 92,
106, 149, 152, 157, 163, 166, 169, 172
Acts, Scenes and Beats.  .  .  .  . 78, 152, 163, 166, 169
Aethelric the Girl.19, 26, 57, 66, 70, 83, 84, 92, 100
Aggar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88, 89, 99
Air Rune .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
43, 44, 61, 64, 80, 81, 99, 127, 128, 130, 170
Alda-Chur.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
25, 51, 67, 73, 74, 144, 162, 168, 174, 175
Alone.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75
Alynx(es).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43, 149
Animal Nomads.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 156
Annual Format.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4
Aranwyth. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 26, 92, 107
Arfritha Vale.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33, 34, 36
Argrath. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 58, 59, 62, 63, 65, 101,
122, 156, 157, 158, 159, 160, 161, 162, 175
Argrath Arkelsson .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58, 59
Arim.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 170
Arkat. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .106, 111, 115, 157, 158, 159
Arnal .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 88, 110, 111, 170
Arnal the Ghoul Thane.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 110
Aroka.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 52, 53
Arraz .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 131, 132, 140
Arrowstone.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 54, 74, 96, 145, 166, 169, 173
Arrowstone Cavalry.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 54, 74, 145, 166
Ashart Dusk-Eater.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 14, 38, 39, 40,
49, 57, 66, 68, 69, 70, 71, 75, 104, 106, 108, 154
Ashwater Fall. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43
Asrelia .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 93, 128
Auroch Bringers.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 31, 36, 40
Auroch Hills.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 99, 103, 104,
139, 142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 162

B

Bachad.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14
Background Events. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5, 7, 50, 105
Balazar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 148
Banti Montalk-Owned. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 134, 135
Barntar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19, 88, 144, 146, 153
Bat Feeder.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67, 69, 70, 71, 73, 74, 75, 76
Baztak. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67
Beast Men .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 121
Bergilmer. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36
Beryl Phalanx.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Big Rubble.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4
Biliz Highlanders.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 90, 91
Biturian Varosh. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
Black Glass Ruins.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 157
Black Hill Band. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 144
Black Horse Troop.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
Black Moon.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103, 162, 168
Black-Paws. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8, 33,
57, 66, 72, 73, 76, 83, 84, 86, 87, 88, 92, 98, 121
Black-Paws Helkos.  .  . 8, 33, 57, 66, 84, 92, 98, 121

176

bloodline .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5, 17, 18, 37,
38, 39, 49, 50, 60, 100, 101, 151, 158, 165, 166
Bloody Swords .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 145
Bloody Sword Tribute .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 145, 149
Blueberry.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 8,
12, 14, 18, 27, 77, 81, 101, 107, 110, 144, 148
Blue Dragon .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 52, 53, 117, 131
Blue Ghost.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 95
Bobber.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 133, 135
Boldhome .  7, 13, 15, 25, 28, 29, 32, 50, 51, 56, 57,
58, 60, 61, 66, 83, 84, 85, 89, 90, 92, 103, 113,
114, 115, 148, 157, 162, 163, 164, 165, 169
Bolik Red-Turner.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46, 153, 154, 163, 164
Boranini.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33, 73
Boranini River. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 73
Borden Hill .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 33, 35, 36
Bordermen .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 90, 91
Border Wulf Peltasts. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 92, 94, 165
Borngold .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4,
6, 11, 17, 21, 43, 57, 58, 60, 61, 62, 63, 72, 83,
84, 85, 86, 87, 91, 92, 100, 146, 151, 153, 155
Borngold Many-Brothers .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17, 21, 43,
57, 58, 60, 61, 72, 83, 84, 91, 92, 100, 146, 151
Branduan Unmatched.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17
Brangbane.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14, 110, 146, 149, 150, 151
Brave Tribe .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 47, 57, 66, 86, 92
Brenessa the Bandit Queen.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75
Brightnight Storm .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 76
Brightwater .  .  .  .  .  . 58, 59, 60, 61, 63, 108, 109, 111
Broddi .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 21,
26, 27, 31, 32, 37, 38, 39, 40, 42, 43, 46, 47, 48,
49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 65,
66, 68, 69, 70, 72, 76, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 91,
92, 93, 100, 101, 102, 104, 105, 106, 107, 109,
110, 111, 115, 146, 147, 148, 149, 151, 153
Broddi Strong-Kin .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
5, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, 19, 21, 27, 31, 32, 37,
38, 39, 47, 48, 51, 54, 56, 57, 58, 66, 68, 76, 83,
84, 88, 92, 101, 104, 106, 148, 149, 151, 153
Brofin.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 69, 107
Bronze .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 145
Broyan.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37, 56, 61, 68, 99, 101, 102, 103,
104, 105, 117, 139, 142, 144, 146, 156, 162
Burnt Oak .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80
Buthur Dog-Nose.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58, 122

C

Cacodemon.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 77, 78, 80
Camille the Quick .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57, 67, 68
Candle Dancers. 163, 166, 169, 171, 172, 173, 174
Cattle Raid. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
6, 10, 11, 47, 49, 54, 106, 107, 146, 148, 155
Cauldron of Pieces.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
103, 113, 114, 116, 118, 124, 125, 126, 130
Cauldron of Ver .  .  .  .  . 114, 116, 118, 125, 126, 160
Celestial Court .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 159
Certami .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 140
Chalana Arroy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32, 106, 122, 168
Chaos.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 20, 28, 36, 56, 57, 66, 67,
68, 75, 78, 81, 82, 120, 129, 130, 141, 152, 160
Chief Kozakang. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111, 157
Chief Priest .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 159, 160
Chieftain .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34, 35, 53, 112, 113, 151, 155
Cinder Pits. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112, 113
Cinsina. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 6,

INDEX

8, 12, 13, 14, 22, 23, 25, 27, 29, 41, 43, 47, 52,
53, 57, 60, 67, 83, 84, 87, 89, 91, 92, 97, 101,
102, 103, 104, 105, 112, 113, 118, 127, 130,
137, 144, 145, 146, 148, 149, 152, 153, 154,
155, 157, 162, 163, 165, 166, 170, 174, 175
Cinsina Ring.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 146
Cinsin Bridge .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 73, 74
117,
121,
122,
131,
City 114,
135,
139,
140,
156,
167,
169
Clan Moot.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 152
Clearwine .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 29, 36, 157, 158
Cloud Folk. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 107
Cold Hard Iron Tribute.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 84
Cold Weather Gear. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Colymar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 10, 28, 36, 77, 113, 169, 175
Common Activities .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 10, 172
Community Resources .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 43, 61, 105
Conquering Storm.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 58, 59
Corpse Stars .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 115,
116, 125, 129, 130, 133, 138, 140, 141, 143
Corridor of Fear.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 123
Court of Silence .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17, 116, 121, 122
crannog .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72
Creek .  .  .  . 12, 15, 27, 31, 33, 35, 38, 39, 40, 42, 43,
44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 56, 57,
64, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 76, 89, 97, 106, 108, 146,
156, 163, 164, 168, 169, 170, 171, 173, 174
Creek-Stream River .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 54, 97
Creek Turn .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 40, 44, 45, 47, 48, 49, 50, 52
Crimson Bat .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56, 57,
66, 67, 68, 69, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 78, 83, 84, 92
Crisis Test .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5, 50, 105
Culbrea. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 8, 9, 12, 14, 15,
19, 26, 30, 58, 67, 83, 92, 103, 108, 144, 145,
146, 148, 149, 153, 155, 162, 163, 166, 169
Culsvula.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 122, 123

D

Dagori Inkarth .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 149
Danda Creek.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38, 39
Danfive Xaron. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 109
Dangerford .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 9,
12, 26, 27, 30, 32, 49, 50, 52, 54, 55, 56, 57, 61,
65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 73, 74, 75, 76, 78, 101, 103,
107, 110, 113, 145, 147, 148, 156, 162, 163,
164, 166, 168, 169, 170, 171, 172, 173, 174
Dangerford Fort .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
68, 110, 168, 169, 170, 171, 172, 173, 174
Dangerford Village.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68, 170, 171, 172, 173
Dara .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 124, 140, 141, 142, 151, 160
Dara Happa.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 124, 140, 141, 142, 151, 160
Dara Happan(s) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 141, 142, 151, 160
Darhudan. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 122, 123
Darkot Strong-Thewed .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65, 149
Dark Season .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8, 37, 56,
57, 60, 71, 76, 80, 101, 104, 149, 156, 162, 169
Darna Longcoat .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 7, 12, 13, 17, 21, 23, 37,
38, 43, 46, 47, 50, 51, 59, 61, 63, 83, 84, 85, 86,
88, 92, 101, 104, 106, 107, 118, 146, 151, 152
Daughters of Mabodh. 75, 147, 151, 155, 165, 175
Dead Horse Hill .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67, 68
Death Hollow .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 146
Death Rune.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 121
Deezola .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 107
Dehori .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 123, 149
Destoral the Short .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 110

Dinacol Hard-Rule.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 52
Dinacoli.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
6, 12, 14, 19, 23, 26, 37, 47, 49, 51, 52, 53, 58,
67, 83, 92, 101, 107, 148, 151, 155, 168, 170
Doblain Dogeaters.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 41, 145, 154, 166
Dogbone Hills. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 94, 95, 96, 97, 98
Dolutha .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 14, 15, 25,
27, 28, 54, 57, 67, 69, 73, 77, 88, 95, 101, 104,
106, 107, 110, 111, 115, 146, 147, 148, 151,
153, 155, 156, 162, 168, 169, 170, 171, 174
Dolutha Ring. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 168
Donalf Flats.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75
dragonewts .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 28
Dragon Isles. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 137, 138, 139
Dragon Pass. .  .  .  . 4, 8, 15, 27, 29, 30, 54, 56, 76, 78,
97, 99, 102, 104, 106, 108, 109, 111, 114, 129,
139, 142, 148, 149, 156, 162, 164, 169, 175
Dragonrise. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 162, 163, 164, 166, 170
Dragons.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57
Durulz Valley .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Duruvan. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 14, 37, 38, 48, 51, 52, 53, 54
Duruvan the Fat.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 14, 37, 38, 51, 54
Dwarf Run.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 29, 72
dwarves .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 125, 126

E

Earth Season.7, 8, 16, 20, 53, 55, 60, 81, 84, 99, 103,
104, 135, 138, 139, 142, 143, 149, 156, 162
East Pocket .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114
Eastside .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 44
Eater of Skin .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 69
Edrath the Wise .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 12, 110
Eleven Lights.1, 4, 6, 9, 143, 156, 157, 158, 159, 160,
161, 166, 168, 170, 171, 172, 173, 174, 175
Eleven Lights Wyter.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 160
Elevens.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 124
Elmal . . 15, 69, 80, 82, 106, 112, 130, 141, 160, 170
Elmali.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
Emerald Sword.  .  .  . 6, 12, 14, 19, 25, 28, 37, 38, 39,
40, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55,
57, 83, 90, 95, 97, 101, 104, 105, 108, 153, 156
Emissaries.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 12, 13, 14, 16,
17, 23, 28, 29, 49, 50, 54, 85, 89, 106, 148, 149
Empire of the Wyrms Friends. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 160
Enastara the Red. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37, 90, 155
Enerin Bristle-Beard .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17, 163
Engizi.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106, 141
Entarios the Supporter. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 166
Episode Format. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 9
Erlending(s) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14
Ernalda. .  .  .  .  . 13, 17, 21, 22, 23, 32, 42, 44, 48, 51,
59, 64, 69, 70, 75, 83, 86, 90, 93, 99, 101, 102,
103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 114, 118, 119, 123,
126, 127, 128, 130, 148, 151, 159, 166, 175
Ernaldan(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 44, 93, 104, 151
Ernalda Temple. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 42
Esrola.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 128
Esrolia .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28,
59, 99, 101, 104, 121, 144, 156, 157, 158, 159
Esrolian(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 121
Esrolians .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 121
Estal Donge.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 97, 113, 156
Estavia GoldEyes .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 46, 84, 96, 107, 163
Eurmal.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
EWF.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 130, 159
Exiles .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 146
Eye of the Hurricane .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 48, 50, 164

F

Farandar. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 6, 11, 12,

17, 21, 31, 33, 37, 41, 42, 51, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59,
61, 65, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 75, 83, 84, 85, 86, 90,
92, 101, 103, 104, 112, 113, 142, 146, 147, 148,
151, 152, 153, 154, 155, 157, 158, 159, 163
Farandar Orendalsson.12, 17, 21, 31, 37, 41, 56, 58,
59, 61, 65, 69, 70, 83, 84, 90, 92, 101, 103, 104,
112, 113, 146, 147, 148, 151, 155, 157, 163
Farnantyr.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 40, 42, 44, 45, 46, 51, 52
Far Place. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 175
Far Shielings .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82
Fat Tribe. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37, 49
Fazzur Wideread. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
37, 55, 56, 101, 102, 168, 169, 170, 171
Feast.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 15, 16
Fedarkos Many-Breath .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 15
Ferfal .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 147
Feud.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 11, 13, 17, 18, 23,
25, 27, 37, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 54, 146, 149, 155
Field Commander .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 91
Fields of Plenty.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114, 124, 126
Filbar the Thunderer.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 77, 78
Findar Longsword .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 144, 145
Finger.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 73, 151
Finger Women .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 151
Finovan .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 41
Fired Thatch Tribute .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14
Fire Season. 7, 8, 11, 20, 37, 50, 55, 56, 60, 84, 101,
102, 105, 106, 118, 131, 149, 156, 162, 168
First Tarshite Light Foot .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 166
Fordstone. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78, 81, 110
Fox 12, 57, 67, 73, 75, 76, 103, 107, 144
Fox Hollow .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57, 67, 73, 75, 76, 103, 144
Freedom Battle .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 171, 172, 173, 174
Free Sartar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43, 59,
83, 85, 86, 144, 145, 147, 148, 151, 164, 165
Frekor Deep-Woods. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
17, 21, 56, 83, 84, 86, 91, 92, 100, 151
Frithan.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 14, 18, 25, 73, 74, 101, 107
Full Moon .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 63, 89, 99, 110
Furthest.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 169, 173
fyrd 1
9

G

Garan.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80, 120, 122, 151
Garan the Low Star. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
Garanvuli.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 120
Garrison Commander.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68
Gash.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126, 127
Gbaji.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 158
Geo 68,
69
Ghoul(s). .  .  . 102, 105, 106, 110, 112, 115, 146, 150
Ghouls.  .  .  .  . 102, 105, 106, 110, 112, 115, 146, 150
Ghoul Thane(s). .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 149
giant.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 31, 33,
34, 35, 36, 67, 68, 83, 121, 122, 129, 133, 149
Gifts of Stone. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 84, 111
Glass Butterfly. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80, 81, 88, 89, 90, 91, 165
Glorantha.  2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 18, 21, 24, 25,
29, 34, 35, 36, 39, 43, 44, 50, 53, 55, 99, 106,
112, 114, 131, 132, 134, 142, 143, 157, 165
Gochbadun .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36
God Learners .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 130, 141, 159
Godori.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 107
Gods War. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129, 141
god-talker(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
5, 38, 48, 49, 51, 84, 90, 99, 143, 152, 165
Golden Tear. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 116, 117, 130
Good Arnal.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 170
Goodfarm .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12
Goodfarm Vale.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12
Goodhaven .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 14, 107, 144

Index

Good Place .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57, 97
Good Rain Hill.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14, 26, 32
Goram White-Fang .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 83, 86, 92, 121
Gordius Silverus.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37, 54, 55
Grandmother Earth.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72, 83, 93
Grave Hill .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 40, 41, 42, 46, 48, 154, 159
Gray Fox .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 107
Grazeland Pony Breeders .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 121, 162
Grazelands. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 162
Great Darkness.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
33, 56, 65, 69, 78, 102, 106, 115, 120, 129, 141
Great Hall .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 40, 51, 61, 67, 102, 157
Great Port .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 117, 131, 133, 135
Great Winter.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
4, 8, 9, 99, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107,
108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 130,
139, 146, 147, 148, 149, 151, 154, 157, 158
Green Age .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 116, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130
Greenhaft. .  . 8, 12, 14, 25, 26, 60, 64, 107, 144, 145
Green Meadows .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 41, 84, 107, 109
Greenstone .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 166
Greenstone Temple .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 166
Greeting.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26, 64, 72, 80, 158
Gringle.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17,
57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 66, 70, 71, 72, 75, 76
Gringle Harvest-King .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
17, 57, 58, 59, 60, 66, 70, 72, 75
Griselda .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32, 37, 38, 51, 52,
53, 54, 56, 83, 89, 90, 101, 102, 106, 147, 151
Griselda Gray-Tresses .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
32, 37, 38, 51, 56, 83, 101, 106, 147, 151
Grizzly Peak .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72
Gudny Gold-Lamb.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 110, 111

H

half-carls .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60
Hallarax.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65, 68, 69, 75
Hallarax the Last Orlanthi. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68, 69
Harana Ilor .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 130
Harvar Ironfist .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14, 25, 75, 162
Hastur Tarsh-Born.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 68
Haunted Ruins .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Havan Vor.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124
Healing Broth Cauldron .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38
Heartland. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56, 99
Helamakt.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 41, 120
Heler. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100, 106, 116, 117, 129, 130, 163
Helering.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100
Heljar .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 118
Helkos .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8, 33, 57, 66, 72, 84, 92, 98, 121
Helkos Brothers .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72
Hell 24, 114, 116, 118, 120, 123, 124, 126, 137
Hell Men .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 137
Hellmouth.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114, 116, 118, 123, 124, 126
Hendriki .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56
Heort .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 24, 31, 35, 37, 38, 39,
44, 46, 54, 61, 64, 70, 71, 73, 76, 79, 80, 84, 88,
89, 99, 102, 106, 108, 126, 156, 160, 163, 164
Heort Creek. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15,
31, 35, 38, 39, 44, 46, 64, 70, 71, 76, 108, 163
Heortland .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37, 54, 61, 84, 88, 89, 99, 164
Heortlings .  .  .  .  .  .  . 24, 73, 76, 79, 99, 126, 156, 160
Herongreen.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 74, 168, 169
heroquester .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 24,
25, 32, 33, 120, 121, 124, 141, 143, 156, 157
heroquesting.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 121, 128, 133, 161
Hero Wars.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 14, 31,
37, 42, 56, 83, 99, 104, 119, 129, 142, 143, 148,
149, 155, 157, 159, 161, 162, 165, 174, 175
High King .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 24, 37, 56, 61,
68, 99, 101, 102, 103, 117, 139, 142, 144, 156

177

High Priest. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 159, 160, 166, 172
Highstead. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80
Hill of Orlanth Victorious. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 157
Hinalda the Enduring .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 70
Hingot Twice-Outlawed .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 14
Hiord .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88, 89, 90, 91
Hofstaring.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 65, 116, 144, 172
Hofstaring Treeleaper .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 65, 116, 144
Holay .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 99
Hollri .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100, 101, 105, 107, 108, 109
Holy Country . . 29, 54, 92, 101, 134, 155, 156, 157
Holy Day(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16, 121, 128, 152
Horse Rest.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 60, 61, 64
housecarl(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5, 16, 19, 20, 25, 26, 27,
37, 38, 64, 65, 88, 147, 148, 149, 151, 159, 172
household.11, 19, 32, 33, 38, 39, 40, 42, 44, 54, 59,
66, 67, 73, 88, 90, 91, 93, 95, 97, 101, 104, 110,
113, 140, 141, 144, 146, 151, 165, 170, 172
Household of Death.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72
House of Peace.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 40, 107
House of Sartar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57, 64, 65,
72, 83, 86, 92, 93, 122, 151, 156, 158, 166, 170
Hsunchen. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Humakt .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
18, 19, 20, 49, 59, 63, 77, 94, 106, 133, 149, 156
Humakti. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19, 133, 149, 156

I

Ice Crawler .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 107, 109, 110
Illaro.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46, 65, 68, 76, 156
Illaro Broken-Back.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46, 68, 76, 156
Illumination .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 128
Imperial Loyalists.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 89
Indigo Gang. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75, 76
Indigo Mountains. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37, 75
Inganna Koscheisdottir.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 146, 155, 170
Ingkot Sharp-Eyes .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 145, 146, 147
Invarth Red-Cloak.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58, 59
iron 27, 46, 54, 61, 84, 85, 88, 91, 92, 96,
98, 102, 106, 118, 120, 123, 124, 125,
126, 130, 134, 141, 149, 158, 159
Isbarnessa Boarscar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 61, 64
Isle Dangerous .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 18, 45, 46, 50, 52,
53, 54, 57, 64, 65, 68, 138, 170, 171, 172, 173
Issaries.  .  . 17, 28, 29, 55, 73, 80, 106, 119, 130, 148
Ivar 4, 6, 12, 13, 14, 25, 27, 37, 38, 40, 46, 54, 55,
56, 57, 66, 67, 68, 69, 72, 73, 75, 84, 88, 90, 91,
92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 98, 101, 102, 103, 104, 106,
110, 113, 118, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 151,
154, 155, 156, 157, 165, 166, 168, 170, 174
Ivar Quickstep. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 12, 14, 46, 57, 68,
88, 101, 106, 147, 148, 151, 155, 168, 170, 174
Ivartha.  6, 12, 13, 14, 25, 27, 37, 38, 40, 54, 55, 56,
57, 66, 67, 68, 69, 72, 73, 75, 84, 88, 90, 91, 92,
93, 94, 95, 96, 98, 101, 102, 103, 104, 110, 113,
118, 144, 145, 151, 154, 156, 157, 165, 166
Ivartha the Skinner. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
6, 12, 38, 54, 57, 66, 84, 88, 92, 166

J

Jaldon Goldentooth.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 156, 157
Janara the Swarthy.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57, 67, 118, 124
Jaranil the Thunder .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17, 19, 26, 38, 39, 48,
49, 57, 60, 76, 80, 84, 86, 88, 106, 109, 114, 147
Jarkorl Snow-Whiskers.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17, 109, 146, 148
Jarolar. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60, 61, 62, 72
Jarolar Keep.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60
Jarolar Longstride. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72
Jarolar Trail.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60, 61, 62
Jarolvale.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26

178

Jarosar .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72, 88, 92
Jarosarings.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88
Jarosar Longarrow .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72
Jarstak. .  . 6, 11, 17, 25, 26, 37, 38, 47, 48, 50, 51, 65
Jarstak Bristle-Beard .  .  .  .  . 6, 17, 26, 37, 38, 47, 65
Jerra .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38
Jogar Sog .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8, 33, 40, 54, 56, 61, 73, 76, 83,
84, 87, 88, 89, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 98, 121, 155
Joh Mith. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28
Jomes Hostralos .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
6, 12, 38, 54, 55, 56, 73, 83, 88, 91, 163
Jomesland .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65, 155, 165
Jonstown .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
6, 7, 9, 13, 14, 15, 22, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 36,
40, 50, 54, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 67, 73, 75,
76, 77, 78, 83, 92, 98, 99, 102, 103, 104, 107,
109, 110, 112, 113, 144, 146, 148, 149, 157,
158, 162, 163, 164, 166, 167, 168, 169, 175
Jonstown Confederation.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 14, 22, 25, 56,
83, 92, 99, 104, 144, 157, 163, 168, 169, 175
Jonstown Library .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 112, 113
Jordarn the Clash.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37
Jost Bronze-Side.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 145
Jostharl Three-Sticks .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39
juror.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19, 21, 22, 23, 152

K

Kaldar. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119, 120
Kalf 5
9
Kalf Triplet-Born .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Kallai .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 104, 113, 118
Kallai Hairy-Breeks .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 104, 113, 118
Kallesra Sees-Tomorrow.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38, 51, 53
Kallyr Starbrow. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6,
68, 72, 83, 97, 99, 100, 101, 103, 115, 118, 144,
145, 156, 157, 158, 162, 163, 164, 168, 169
Kangharl .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 6, 7, 11, 15, 17, 19,
37, 38, 39, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 55, 57, 58, 60,
61, 77, 101, 107, 146, 147, 151, 152, 153, 155
Kangharl Black-Brow. .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7, 15, 17, 19, 37, 38,
47, 48, 49, 51, 57, 58, 60, 61, 77, 101, 107, 146
Karganar Blood-Eye. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 51, 58
Kerenelling .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 100, 151, 158
Kernalda .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 19, 21, 38,
51, 52, 70, 73, 81, 82, 100, 106, 109, 151, 163
Kernalda Other-Ways .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19, 21,
38, 51, 52, 70, 73, 81, 100, 106, 109, 151, 163
Kero Fin.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 33, 106, 114, 148, 164
Kethaela.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37, 97
Kheldon.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 163, 166, 169
Killard Vale .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 67
King Broyan .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37, 56, 61,
68, 99, 101, 102, 103, 117, 139, 142, 144, 156
King of Dragon Pass. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8
King of the Dead. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 122, 123
King of the Ghouls.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 146, 150
King Ranulf.  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 101, 103, 144, 145, 148, 155
kinstrife .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48,
59, 64, 65, 69, 81, 87, 164, 165, 166, 170, 174
Kitori .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72
Kolat.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 102, 106
Kolating.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 102
Korlmhyor the Swift. .  . 6, 37, 38, 48, 49, 50, 51, 53
Korolfin Longeye .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 46, 67, 68, 146, 170
Korolful the Keen.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129, 141, 160
Kostajor Wolf-Champion.57, 66, 72, 83, 86, 92, 175
Krikans. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43, 165
Kulbrast Offirson .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 61, 64
Kullina the Fat. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 17, 21, 37, 51, 52,
56, 58, 61, 65, 70, 73, 83, 84, 90, 92, 101, 103,
107, 109, 112, 113, 146, 151, 155, 157, 163

INDEX

L

Lake Aroka .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 52, 53
Larnste.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13,
15, 32, 99, 102, 104, 118, 119, 142, 143, 144
Law Court .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 23, 152
lawspeaker.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 152
Legate.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 92, 94
Legate Bisomen. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 92, 94
Leikorl the Shadow. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 40, 84, 92, 93, 96
Lhankor Mhy .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106, 115, 148, 158, 159
Lhankpentos the Blind. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
9, 17, 37, 38, 39, 48, 49, 51, 52, 95
Life Rune.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 121
Lightbringers. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 120
Lightning Band.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 61
Lightning Lodge.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 40, 41
Loom House .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 23, 53
Lorthing. . 15, 33, 61, 73, 74, 75, 101, 103, 144, 145
Lorthing River. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 73, 74, 75
Lorthing Vale .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 61, 101, 103, 144, 145
Lo-Yin .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 131, 132
Lunar .  4, 6, 8, 14, 22, 25, 27, 28, 37, 39, 41, 43, 46,
48, 54, 55, 56, 57, 61, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 70, 71,
72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 84, 86, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 94,
95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106,
107, 108, 109, 111, 113, 114, 115, 116, 121,
124, 128, 135, 143, 144, 145, 146, 148, 154,
155, 156, 157, 158, 159, 160, 162, 163, 164,
165, 166, 167, 168, 169, 172, 173, 174, 175
Lunar Army. .  .  .  .  .  . 56, 84, 106, 144, 156, 162, 174
Lunar Empire .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8, 14, 56, 86,
99, 101, 109, 128, 135, 146, 156, 157, 159, 175
Lunar Occupation .  . 8, 84, 148, 155, 166, 168, 174
Lunar Way.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 89, 108
Lyserian .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25
Lyserian Goodspeech. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25

M

Maboder .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58,
60, 72, 75, 76, 83, 86, 87, 89, 90, 92, 153, 165
Mabodh.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75, 89, 147, 151, 155, 165, 175
Maklan.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 32
Maklan the Fat and Good.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31
Malan Hardbargain .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 64, 146
Malani .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 92, 163, 166, 169
Many-Breath.  .  . 12, 15, 40, 41, 42, 81, 93, 105, 106
Many Suns.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 159
Maran. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106, 130, 146
Marriage. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Mastery Rune .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 154
Meteor Spear.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 32, 80, 81, 109
Middle Air.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 116, 174
Middle World .  .  .  .  . 24, 67, 112, 115, 124, 126, 127,
128, 129, 130, 131, 133, 135, 139, 141, 142
militia.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19, 20, 25,
26, 39, 46, 76, 79, 86, 90, 96, 149, 150, 168, 169
Minaryth Purple. . 55, 102, 112, 113, 114, 115, 149
Mirani .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 42, 44, 45, 46, 51, 52
Mirinite Swords .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 75, 109, 145, 166
Mishap House.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 32, 128
Montalk Wave-Breaker .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 133
Moon Dogs. . 65, 106, 108, 111, 113, 114, 145, 148
Moon Rune.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 108
Moon Winds.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25,
26, 55, 65, 108, 147, 154, 155, 165, 166, 175
moot.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5, 8, 21,
22, 23, 32, 103, 118, 130, 140, 151, 152, 153
Moot. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 23, 24, 152, 154
Mooting Stage.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 154
Morale Resource. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 16, 18, 106

Morganeth.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 110, 111, 112, 146, 148, 170
Morganeth White-Eye.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112
Morgan Sword-Tongue.  .  . 146, 147, 148, 151, 170
Mountain Giant .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 35
Mountains of the Mother .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126
Movement Rune.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32, 80, 143
Mudhens.  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56, 72, 73, 74, 97, 156, 163, 166

N

Namers. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 116, 128, 129, 130
Narangrosing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120, 141
New Breathers.99, 104, 139, 142, 143, 147, 153, 156
Nightwood. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119, 120, 121, 122, 141

O

Odayla.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37, 106, 129
ogres.  .  . 8, 56, 57, 68, 78, 81, 97, 129, 141, 171, 172
Ogres .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 160
Old God.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 130
Olinara Horse-Trader .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 78
One Day. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 38, 99, 102, 104
Onelisin Cat-Witch .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72
Orendal Filbarsson. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 77, 78
Orgorvale. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32, 33, 36
Orgorvale Summer. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32, 36
Orgorvaltes.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 33
Orkarl. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19, 59, 60, 63, 149, 150, 152
Orkarl Iron-Beard .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19, 63, 149, 152
Orlanth. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
24, 25, 26, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 38, 40, 41, 42, 44,
45, 46, 48, 51, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 64, 65, 68,
69, 72, 75, 78, 79, 80, 84, 87, 88, 89, 99, 101,
102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 108, 109, 111, 112,
113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121,
123, 124, 125, 129, 130, 133, 136, 137, 138,
139, 140, 141, 142, 143, 144, 145, 147, 148,
149, 151, 152, 154, 155, 156, 157, 158, 159,
160, 161, 162, 163, 166, 169, 170, 172, 175
Orlanthi.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 7, 8, 10, 12, 15,
16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 25, 26, 28, 30, 31, 33,
40, 44, 45, 46, 56, 57, 64, 68, 69, 79, 84, 87, 88,
89, 99, 103, 108, 109, 111, 114, 118, 119, 121,
124, 125, 129, 130, 133, 136, 138, 141, 142,
143, 144, 147, 152, 154, 155, 166, 169, 170
Orlanth is Dead .  .  .  .  .  . 8, 9, 99, 102, 106, 114, 143
Orlanth Temple. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 42, 101
Orldarmon .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 113
Orlevor the Handsome .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 77, 78, 81
Orlmakt.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 146, 147, 148, 151, 156, 170
Orlmakt Nine-Winds. 146, 147, 148, 151, 156, 170
Orlmarl the Charioteer.  .  .  .  . 84, 96, 116, 119, 146
Orlmarth.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 77, 108, 112, 113, 158
Orngerin Thundercape.  .  .  . 68, 104, 108, 115, 172
Orstalor.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 35, 37, 46, 52, 56, 57, 66, 69,
71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 101, 108, 144, 146, 155,
156, 160, 163, 164, 165, 166, 168, 172, 173
Orstalor Ironplow. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 146
Orstalor Spearlord.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 35, 37,
46, 56, 57, 66, 69, 144, 155, 160, 163, 168, 172
Orsta Trades-With-Trolls .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 62, 75
Ortossi.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 11, 17, 19, 25, 26, 38,
48, 49, 50, 57, 70, 76, 79, 82, 109, 147, 148, 151
Ortossi Ketilsson.17, 19, 26, 38, 48, 49, 57, 76, 147
Osirin Bloody-Axe.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 133, 134
Osmann.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58, 59, 60
Osmanning(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Ostling.  .  .  .  .  . 39, 40, 41, 72, 73, 84, 92, 93, 94, 122
Ostling Four-wolf.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72
Ostling Spotted-Fur.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 84, 92

Other Side.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 32, 33,
35, 42, 99, 104, 116, 117, 121, 125, 133, 143
Otherworld .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32, 117, 127, 131
Ourania.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 140
Own Two Feet. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88

P

Parutan Redgold.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12
Path of Silence. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 120, 121, 122
Path of the Dead.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 116
Patrol .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 11, 25,
26, 27, 47, 49, 52, 54, 61, 85, 89, 106, 149, 170
Pavis.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 29, 78, 88, 147, 157, 159, 162
Peace Weaving .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 10, 11, 13, 16, 17,
20, 21, 22, 47, 49, 50, 51, 53, 54, 146, 149, 155
Peloria .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 156
Pharandros .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 162
Phargentes.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57,
58, 60, 61, 65, 67, 70, 75, 76, 148, 154, 156, 163
Phargentes Grinning-Scar. .  .  .  .  .  . 57, 58, 154, 163
Polaris. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112, 113, 140, 141
Pol-Joni .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37, 57
Prax 15, 57, 78, 99, 101, 121, 126, 155, 156, 157, 158
Praxian(s) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 121, 156, 157
Prince of Sartar.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 22, 103, 115, 163, 166
Princess Starry Eyes.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 117, 131
Prince Temertain .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
13, 22, 25, 51, 56, 57, 83, 93, 103, 113, 149, 156
Provincial Army.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 169, 171
Puppeteer Troupe.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 156

Q

Quivin Mountains .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 33, 58, 138, 142

R

Raid6, 7, 10, 11, 12, 18, 19, 37, 47, 49, 51,
54, 104, 106, 107, 109, 146, 148, 155
Rain Blossom .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12
Ralios.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 114, 143
Rangard Blacktooth.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 41
Ranulf.6, 101, 103, 116, 144, 145, 148, 155, 157, 166
Ranulf Stand-Tall .  .  .  . 116, 144, 145, 148, 157, 166
Ranulf Turn-Tail.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 144
Redalda .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
Red Broos .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 33
Red Cow.1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31,
32, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 44, 45, 46,
47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59,
60, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 75, 76,
77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90,
91, 92, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104,
105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113,
114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 120, 123, 128, 130,
141, 142, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149, 151,
152, 154, 155, 156, 157, 158, 160, 162, 163,
164, 165, 166, 168, 169, 170, 171, 174, 175
Red Cow Fort.7, 9, 19, 27, 30, 31, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38,
39, 40, 41, 42, 44, 46, 50, 53, 54, 55, 59, 60, 66,
67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 75, 76, 80, 86, 88, 89, 90,
91, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106,
107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 113, 114, 115, 145,
147, 148, 149, 151, 152, 154, 155, 156, 157,
163, 164, 165, 166, 168, 169, 170, 171, 175
red cows.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 31, 32, 55, 148, 159
Red Cow Tribute. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 145, 148
Red Emperor. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 99, 156
Red God. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 66,
67, 70, 74, 75, 96, 99, 107, 108, 115, 116, 117
Red Goddess.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

Index

66, 67, 70, 74, 75, 96, 99, 107, 108, 115, 116
Red Inn .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 66
Red Moon .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37,
56, 62, 72, 108, 119, 141, 157, 158, 165, 168
Red Sword.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 118
Resettlement.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49
Resource Crisis.  .  .  .  . 5, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18, 114
Resource Fluctuation.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105
Resources. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5, 7, 13, 14, 15, 29,
43, 50, 61, 105, 111, 114, 154, 160, 165, 166
Resurrection Thrones .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 103,
106, 112, 113, 115, 116, 118, 139, 141, 142
Rigsdal.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 113, 117, 141, 142, 144
Rising of the Culbrea.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 9, 103, 144, 145
Rivals .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4,
5, 6, 7, 8, 17, 28, 32, 76, 109, 146, 151, 153, 155
River of Cradles .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 101, 157
River of Swords.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119, 120, 121, 122, 123
Rockwood Mountains.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119, 142, 149
Rostakus Twice-Outlawed. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14,
37, 38, 39, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53
Royal House .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 83, 92, 157, 166
Royal House of Sartar .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 92, 166
Rubble Runner .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 44
Runegate .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 28, 29, 57, 66, 112, 169

S

Sacred Time. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8, 31, 50, 65, 99
Salissa Three-Husbands. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12, 17, 21, 37, 38, 47, 48, 51, 52, 104, 105
Sambari .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32
Sanchali .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 83
Sardaling(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 69
Saronil .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 92
Saroosa. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 62, 63, 64, 65
Saroosa Dark-Wyrd.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59
Sarostiping. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 147
Sartar .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 7, 8, 13, 15, 18, 21, 22, 23,
24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 36, 37, 40, 42, 43,
52, 54, 56, 57, 59, 61, 64, 65, 66, 67, 72, 73, 76,
78, 81, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 92, 93, 95,
97, 98, 102, 103, 104, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114,
115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 121, 122, 125, 127,
129, 141, 144, 145, 147, 148, 149, 150, 151,
156, 157, 158, 159, 160, 162, 163, 164, 165,
166, 167, 168, 169, 170, 172, 173, 174, 175
Sartar High Council.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 166
Sartarite(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
57, 83, 88, 92, 98, 114, 121, 157, 167, 169, 174
Sazdorf.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 59, 111, 115, 157
Sazdorf Trolls .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 111, 115
Scene .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 9, 10, 11, 13,
16, 18, 20, 23, 28, 36, 39, 47, 49, 51, 54, 60, 78,
85, 89, 92, 106, 149, 152, 157, 163, 166, 169
Sea Season.  7, 11, 30, 32, 36, 37, 39, 50, 54, 56, 60,
61, 83, 99, 101, 102, 105, 148, 155, 156, 162
Second Age .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 130, 131, 141, 156
Selelmal the True .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112
Serias .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80, 120
Seven Mothers .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 46, 89, 99, 101, 102,
104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 135, 154, 167
Sevenoaks .  .  .  .  .  .  . 48, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65
Seven Tributes. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 145
Shiprise .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 163, 166
Siganti. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12, 107
Silent Wind.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 115, 145, 166
Silk-Breeches feud .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37
Sinjota .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 119
Siwend the Hunter.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129, 141, 160
skirmishers .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20, 167
Sky River .  .  .  .  .  .  . 117, 130, 131, 132, 135, 136, 140

179

Sky River Boats.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 135
Skyriver Titan.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43
Sky World .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 80, 116,
117, 118, 130, 131, 133, 140, 141, 142, 143
Snakepipe Hollow. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57, 75, 78, 83, 130
Spirit World. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43
Split Waters.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 60
Stagland.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37, 43, 45,
57, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 70, 71, 76, 85, 86, 100
Stagland Sour .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 43, 45
Star Captain(s) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 120, 129, 141
Star Husbands.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 151
Stealing of the Giant’s Cows.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
30, 31, 40, 56, 101, 148, 175
stickpickers.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 102
Still Lake .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 71, 72
Stonegate.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65, 84, 85,
88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 98, 107, 148, 163, 164, 165
Storm Age.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32, 131
Stormbrow. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
56, 69, 144, 151, 155, 156, 163, 166, 168, 172
Storm God(s) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 56
Storm Rams. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 76, 95, 97, 155, 156, 166
Storm Season. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
8, 16, 37, 60, 102, 104, 105, 149, 151, 152, 157
Storm Tribe.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 129, 130, 141
Storm Voice.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 116
Summons of Evil. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 24, 33, 65, 103
Sun County.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 159
Sunny Brook.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88, 89, 90, 91
Sureela. 6, 57, 58, 60, 65, 75, 76, 145, 148, 153, 154
Sureela Far-Traveled. .  . 6, 57, 58, 75, 145, 153, 154
Swamp of Despair. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 123, 124
Sword Rebels.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 65
Sworn Knives .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 147, 148, 170, 174

T

Tamara Little-Mouse .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 53
Tanian, the Fiery Waters.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 130, 141, 160
Tarkalor.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72
Tarkalus.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17, 46, 71, 154
Tarkalus Bigger-Boat .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17, 46, 71, 154
Tarsh. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 29, 56, 57, 61, 64, 68, 72, 89,
92, 162, 163, 166, 168, 169, 170, 173, 174, 175
Tarshite(s).  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 162, 168, 174
Tatius.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 99, 101,
102, 103, 111, 124, 143, 144, 145, 156, 162
Tatius the Bright.  .  .  .  .  . 99, 101, 102, 111, 124, 145
Tatoukal Blackbeard. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 88, 89, 90
Tattered and Torn.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 131
Teller of Lies .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 170
Telmor.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8, 14, 15, 22, 25, 27,
28, 33, 37, 40, 41, 54, 56, 57, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64,
65, 71, 72, 73, 75, 76, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89,
90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101,
102, 103, 105, 107, 108, 110, 115, 116, 118,
120, 141, 149, 151, 153, 155, 156, 166, 175
Telmori. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8, 14, 15, 22, 25,
27, 28, 33, 37, 40, 41, 54, 56, 57, 60, 61, 62, 63,
64, 65, 71, 72, 73, 75, 76, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88,
89, 90, 91, 92, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101,
102, 103, 105, 107, 108, 110, 115, 116, 118,
120, 141, 149, 151, 153, 155, 156, 166, 175
Telmori Royal Guard.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72, 83, 86, 98, 156
Temertain .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 13, 22, 25,
51, 56, 57, 83, 85, 93, 103, 113, 115, 149, 156
Terasarin .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72, 92
Tergavi.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 73
thanes.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 5,
7, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 20, 24, 26, 29, 31,
36, 37, 38, 49, 50, 60, 64, 67, 80, 101, 105, 107,

180

108, 109, 110, 121, 144, 146, 148, 149, 152
Theater. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 55
The Hunter .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 62, 63
Third Age. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 142
This World. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 24, 46, 112, 127
thrall(s) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33, 35, 36, 148, 150
Three New Stars.  .  .  .  .  . 9, 65, 96, 99, 103, 104, 105,
106, 113, 114, 115, 129, 139, 143, 146, 148,
152, 153, 154, 155, 156, 157, 159, 160, 161
Thunder Brother(s) .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19, 41, 70, 147
Thunder Brother’s Barracks .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 106
Thunder Shout .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 20, 173
Toena.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14, 15, 28, 107
Toena Fort.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15
Toltar Gors-Born .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 57
Torath Silk-Breeches .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37
Torkani. .  .  .  . 12, 14, 75, 92, 107, 148, 149, 163, 166
Tormakting .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37, 39, 50, 77, 78, 148, 151
Tovtarim Orindori.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25
Tovtaros.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 149
Trade .  .  .  .  . 10, 13, 16, 27, 28, 29, 59, 62, 75, 77, 78
Tree 30, 35, 65, 116, 135, 136, 137, 138, 144
Trickster. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 159
trolls.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15, 59,
75, 107, 111, 112, 123, 132, 141, 149, 157, 158
Truth Rune .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 122
tula 8
3
Twenty-One Charm.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 102
Twisted Morganeth .  .  .  .  .  . 110, 111, 146, 148, 170
Two Crowns .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 85, 86
Two-Pine.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 6, 8, 14, 15, 19, 22, 23, 25,
26, 28, 59, 60, 61, 64, 65, 83, 95, 96, 101, 107,
108, 116, 144, 145, 146, 148, 149, 151, 153

U

Ulanin .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 31, 32, 33, 36
Ulaninstead.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 31, 32, 33, 36
Ulanin the Rider.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 31
Umath .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 21, 114, 117, 127, 134, 143, 151
Umbroli .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 49, 101
undead.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 110, 132, 133, 134, 135, 139
Underwillow. 12, 14, 15, 18, 48, 101, 104, 107, 113
Underworld. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
65, 99, 114, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121,
122, 123, 124, 126, 130, 137, 142, 159, 161
Unfettered One.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 118, 143
Upland Marsh.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 97
Urox.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 30, 32, 75, 82, 87, 106
Uroxi. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75, 82, 87
Ustarna. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8, 39, 40, 41, 42,
46, 79, 101, 106, 107, 108, 154, 163, 165, 166
Ustarna Try-Much .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
39, 79, 101, 106, 107, 154, 163, 165

V

Valind. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 135, 141
Vastyr Bloody-Shirt.6, 57, 66, 72, 75, 84, 92, 93, 118
Velas Traitor’s .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 138
Venebain .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 112, 113
Venharl. .  . 56, 60, 64, 65, 68, 76, 95, 101, 108, 144,
151, 155, 156, 163, 166, 167, 168, 172, 173
Venharl Stormbrow .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
56, 68, 144, 151, 155, 156, 163, 166, 168, 172
Verlain Never-Doubt.  .  .  . 6, 31, 104, 113, 118, 148
vexilla.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 92, 94, 144
Vinga .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 41, 44, 45, 51
Vingan.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 44, 45
Vingkot .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19, 30,
31, 32, 33, 34, 41, 101, 105, 116, 120, 129, 151
Vingkotling Age .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 105

INDEX

Vingkotling(s). .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 33, 34, 116
Vogarth Hearth-Guard .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 58
Volsaxi .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 56, 61, 121
Voranga Many-Sorrows. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
42, 43, 46, 100, 116, 151, 163
Voriof.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 39, 81, 129, 153

W

Waha. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Wandle.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 34, 35, 39, 40,
42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 57, 160, 163, 164, 165, 166
Wandle Bog.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 163
War 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 27,
29, 31, 37, 42, 50, 56, 59, 81, 83, 92, 99, 104,
105, 106, 107, 108, 110, 111, 119, 124, 129, 141,
142, 143, 146, 148, 149, 155, 156, 157, 159, 160,
161, 162, 163, 165, 167, 170, 171, 172, 174, 175
warband.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 19,
20, 30, 50, 86, 87, 91, 96, 97, 144, 148, 167, 172
Warband Leader.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 110
War Clan .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8, 23
War Resource. 7, 20, 23, 29, 50, 105, 111, 170, 171
Water Rune .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 35
Wealth Background Event. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7
werewolves .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 25, 61, 62,
63, 65, 73, 84, 85, 86, 88, 90, 91, 96, 102, 110
wergild.11, 12, 17, 18, 19, 21, 43, 46, 48, 52, 55, 65
White Crow Inn .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 73, 74
White Elves.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 138
Whitewall .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37, 56, 61, 84, 99, 101, 114
Wildday.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
25, 61, 63, 73, 84, 88, 89, 90, 91, 97, 100, 110
Willandring.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8, 35, 70, 71, 163, 165, 166
Willandring the Giant .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 8, 163, 165
Willows .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 135
Wilmskirk .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 32, 37, 54, 168, 169, 171, 173
Wind Hawks.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 161
Wind Lord.  .  . 40, 57, 60, 70, 78, 80, 81, 88, 96, 144
Windstop.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 4, 99, 100, 114, 142
Wintertop .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 28, 29
wolf brother. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 41, 63, 73, 83, 86, 90, 98
Wolf Hills. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 72, 76, 78, 86, 92, 94, 151, 175
Wolf Hunt .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37, 54, 83
wolfmen.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 14, 23, 25, 54, 57, 61, 71, 83, 84,
86, 91, 92, 96, 97, 101, 110, 151, 153, 157, 175
Wolf Ridges.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 157
Wolfskinners.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 27, 59, 83, 101, 165
Wolf Stand.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 87, 88, 94, 96, 97
Wolf Tribute .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 148
Womb of the Mother.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 126, 127
Woods of the Dead. .  . 102, 103, 146, 148, 149, 150
Wulfsland. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 12, 15,
27, 39, 75, 77, 84, 85, 88, 89, 91, 92, 95, 103,
105, 147, 151, 153, 155, 156, 164, 165, 175
Wulfslanders.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 27, 91, 105, 153
wyter. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 17, 19,
42, 93, 101, 105, 106, 118, 126, 157, 159, 160

Y

Years in Hiding.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 61, 83, 89
Yelm .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 117, 124, 139, 158, 159
Yelmalio.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 158, 159
Yelmalion. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 158
Yerestia. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 52
Yinkin. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60, 106, 120
Young God. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 117, 130, 131

Z

Zorak Zoran .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 55, 133, 139

THE HERO WARS BEGIN
IN DRAGON PASS
You are heroes of the Red Cow clan, from the Cinsina tribe,
of the Jonstown Confederation in the kingdom of Sartar.
Fend off Chaos, werewolves, other tribes, and more in this
epic campaign that takes your heroes from the depths of the
Occupation of the kingdom of Sartar by the Lunar Empire
in 1618 through to the Liberation of the kingdom in 1625.

WHAT IS HEROQUEST?
HeroQuest is an innovative, dynamic, and flexible story-game
rules engine. It presents a simple rules system that ‘gets out of
the way’ making it quick to prepare for a game, or in play—
leaving more time for the story. It allows Game Masters to

WHAT IS GLORANTHA?
Glorantha is the most elegant, original, and imaginative
fantasy setting since Middle Earth. A unique bronze age
setting, it is a world of exotic myth and awesome magic,
self-contained and unique in its creation. The existence
and use of the magical and mythic realms are central to the
physics of Glorantha. Here the gods and heroes guard and
guide their followers, sharing magics while pursuing their
own enigmatic ends. Glorantha’s detailed cultures, histories,
and myths are shaped by gods, heroes, and magic, and yet
are plausible and logically self-consistent. Glorantha has
been the setting for the RuneQuest roleplaying game, and
the award-winning computer game King of Dragon Pass.
Glorantha is fully described in the Guide to Glorantha,
available from Chaosium.

This book is a companion to The Coming Storm which details the setting in which
the adventures here take place: The Red Cow clan and their neighbors. It is intended
for use with that product. It requires the use of the HeroQuest Glorantha rules.

CHA4031 $34.95 USD

HeroQuest and Glorantha are registered trademarks of
Moon Design Publications LLC. All rights reserved.
Discover more at www.glorantha.com
Printed in China

CHA4031

THIS IS NOT A STANDALONE BOOK!

THE ELEVEN LIGHTS — VOLUME II

The campaign in this book has a year-by-year outline for
events for the Red Cow clan and Dragon Pass for those
years. Included are twenty complete adventures set in that
exciting period, along with many more adventure seeds.
The adventures feature two complete heroquests, including
a quest to the Underworld and Sky that will result in your
PCs changing the world.

run games modelled on ancient myth, epic sagas, and tales
of high adventure. HeroQuest encourages creative input from
players, resulting in an exciting, unpredictable narrative
created through group play.

